title:: Dr. Kyle Gillett —  Tools for Hormone Optimization in Males | Episode 102 (highlights)
author:: [[Huberman Lab]]
full-title:: "Dr. Kyle Gillett —  Tools for Hormone Optimization in Males | Episode 102"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/bd3953aa-733d-48a5-a548-ef7df20e1716

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Dec 18th, 2022]]
	- Bloodwork twice a year
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Everyone should get blood work done as early as possible, depending on their budget and availability., * A good follow up is about six months., * Males of all ages should do some of the following: take daily supplements, get regular exercise, eat a healthy diet.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Most people aren't going to be in a position to evaluate them properly, or at least not with the full depth that they could if they had an MD like yourself looking at them. Okay, so everyone should get blood work as early as possible, depending on their budget and availability. What should everybody do in terms of monitoring those markers? So assuming that there's no major intervention, how often do you recommend that people get their blood work done?
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Let's say, let's take an individual who just turned 18, they just got their first set of blood work. They'll probably find something in it that they may want to optimize using shared decision making with their physician. Usually a good follow up is about six months.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Okay, so twice a year getting blood work done and having a physician evaluate it, that sounds reasonable to me. And for those that didn't initiate this at 18, such as myself, it's the best time to start then would be as soon as possible. Yeah, right. In terms of the other things that all males should do, meaning all males of all ages, puberty and beyond, should do, what are some of those things?
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  So on a daily basis, maybe you could just take us through the arc of a day and push out some of the protocols that you use or the things that you'd like to see your male patients use in order to try and optimize their hormone status. So I'll briefly touch on some of the lifestyle pillars to start diet and exercise are the first two. In puberty sleep is particularly important, of course. ([Time 0:21:18](https://share.snipd.com/snip/b8eb3736-6504-41ff-8865-9d684bdb3c60))
	- Find what you really like to do
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Everyone should get outside and find a movement pastime to last a lifetime., * You're going to get sunlight. You're going to get some degree of heat and cold exposure, and you're also just going to move more.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  There's different mindfulness or relaxation techniques. Going outside can often help with this as well. Dietary changes in exercise can help with this too. Some people like prayer or meditation, and a lot of people like counseling or therapy, or even just talking openly with a family member or a friend.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  What would be some of the other pillars for hormone optimization? Here, I feel like we're not just talking about people in their 20s and 30s, but again, we're wrapping our arms around, basically, puberty onward. I mean, gosh, I'm looking back. I started meditating pretty early. I started weight training and running early. I gave some thought to my diet in high school, but really was in college. I started thinking more about what I was ingesting and why and trying to do better there. But people are coming to the table at different stages of life and trying to optimize for hormones. So what would be some of the additional things that everybody should do?
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Everyone should get outside and find a movement pastime to last a lifetime. You're going to get sunlight. You're going to get some degree of heat and cold exposure, and you're also just going to move more. Being in an artificial environment where there's artificial lights, artificial air conditioning is going to have many effects on your body. So that's vital. Another one is finding what your purpose is in life. So I call this spirit, but it's really just the self-actualization component of Maslow's hierarchy of needs, which is basically your physical needs, your mental needs, and then your purpose in life, what you really like to do. ([Time 0:30:17](https://share.snipd.com/snip/aa0184fe-ef06-4d00-8e1e-a2cb43c1ce69))
	- Daily or more often masturbation is detrimental
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Prolactin levels increase after ejaculation., * Prolactin inhibits the release of LH and FSH, which can lead to decreased testosterone levels.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  That's an accurate statement. And prolactin does have a significant acute increase after ejaculation. It does to some degree after orgasm as well, but prolactin acts on the pituitary to inhibit the release of the hormones LH and FSH, of which LH can increase testosterone. So this may be one of the cases where the dose makes the poison. And if it is a very frequent habit, certainly daily or more than once a day would be very detrimental from a hormonal component, not even taking into account the the neural wiring. ([Time 0:42:20](https://share.snipd.com/snip/d1869340-a57d-417a-b35d-84642dda8fc0))