- [[Ep.118 — Shreyas Doshi — Making of a Great Leader (highlights)]]
	- [[Shreyas Doshi]] is a [[startup]] advisor who has formerly worked in the [[product teams]] of tech firms like [[Stripe]], [[Twitter]], [[Google]], [[Yahoo]]. He regularly writes about [[product]], [[strategy]], [[org psychology]], [[leadership]], and life!
	- Notes
		- Operating with the Owner [[Mindset]]
			- Retaining agency is an important part of not only succeeding financially, but also succeeding in life, with one's family, and with friends. Having a mentality of [[ownership]] includes taking [[initiative]], being [[creative]] and [[innovative]], and taking [[risks]] when needed. It also involves taking the time to understand the [[context]] of the task or problem, the potential outcomes, and how to best use the resources at hand.
		- The [[LNO Framework]]
			- The LNO framework consists of three types of tasks: L tasks, which are leverage tasks that put in X and get back 10X or 100X; N tasks, which are neutral tasks; and O tasks, which are overhead tasks. Implementing this [[framework]] drastically changed their approach to work, increasing their effectiveness and allowing them to be more present with their family in the evenings.
		- Minimizing [[Opportunity Costs]]
			- Focusing on [[quick wins]] can lead to a positive [[return on investment]], but it is not the optimal option. Instead, teams should strive to minimize opportunity cost, as this will ultimately lead to a greater [[impact]] and return. There is fear of pursuing big, ambiguous [[goals]] because of the lack of understanding of the business, their customers, or the formula for return on investment, and thus not getting the desired positive return on investment.
		- The Issue with Following the Rubric
			- Following other people's playbooks can lead to average or slightly above average results at best, and not allow for the achievement of [[outsized returns]]. **Certainty theater** is a phenomenon that is common in the business world, news, and current events, where people come off as certain about everything in order to appear committed. This is due to the [[tribal]] instincts that have been programmed due to spending a long amount of time in a tribe.
		- The [[Antithesis Principle]]
			- Thinking in shades of gray is encouraged, and the best way to do this is to spend one day a year considering the opposite of what is believed. This is known as the **antithesis principle**, an approach of understanding an idea about the world, applying it to be effective, then adopting the opposite of that idea in order to become wiser and more effective. As an example, this principle suggests avoiding popular, entertaining mainstream content and instead seeking out books that may not have a great title or be written by a famous author, in order to gain a competitive edge in understanding.
		- “Apple Pie” Positions
			- The apple pie principle refers to positions that are “staked out like motherhood apple pie” and are treated as planted axioms that should never be questioned. This affects “everyone concerned”, and can be seen when people ask for metrics before making a decision, use executives as a shield, or insist on more meetings. The personal cost of pushing back on the apple pie principle is so high that almost nobody does it.
		- Individual vs. Group [[Decision Making]]
			- Individuals are able to use instinct, experience, and various inputs to make decisions without the need for rational logic, whereas in a group setting there is often immense pressure to do so. This can lead to worse decisions being made than if an individual were making the decision alone. Furthermore, individuals can make decisions without worrying about sounding smart or having to provide bulletproof answers, whereas in a group setting, people can be influenced by the need to appear smart and have a bulletproof answer.
		- Learning to Unlearn
			- The schooling system is deterministic because it presents a linear path that students are expected to take, with a predetermined outcome. This reinforces the idea that students are unable to think outside of the box and find their own solutions to problems. Unlearning and being curious is essential to break out of this deterministic cycle.
			  
			  People often ask for feedback in a very granular way, mainly seeking real-time positive feedback and reinforcement, rather than objective criticism or advice.
		- Being an Invisible Leader
			- Invisible [[leaders]] don't get the same credit as visible leaders, but it is still possible to lead effectively in this way. This form of [[leadership]] brings joy and resonates with many, and it is encouraged to embrace this form of leadership.
		- Tight Grip, Weak Grip
			- Having a strong [[vision]] and then letting go and allowing team members to come up with ideas and have freedom in how to execute them is a way to be a good manager. Decisions should be pushed down to the people who are using the tools to enable an organization to fulfill its [[mission]]. This will enable the [[mission]] of the [[organization]] to be fulfilled and the result can look like magic.
			  
			  A leader should have a very tight grip on the vision, but after that, they should let go and allow the team to come up with the best ideas and have execution [[freedom]].