- William Irvine: Living a Stoic Life | The Knowledge Project
  
  author:: [[Farnam Street (The Knowledge Project Podcast)]]
  categories:: #video
  tags:: [[youtube]] [[stoicism]] [[interview]]
  url:: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lSIErua5q04
	- Document Note: In this episode of The Knowledge Project, Shane Parrish interviews [[William Irvine]], a professor of [[philosophy]] and author of [[A Guide to the Good Life: The Ancient Art of Stoic Joy]]. In the interview, Irvine explains [[Stoic philosophy]] and how it can be used to live a more meaningful life. He explains that [[Stoicism]] is a [[philosophy of life]] that focuses on being content with what you have and not allowing external circumstances to determine your internal state. He also discusses how to use Stoic principles to deal with [[negative emotions]], create a [[daily routine]], and live a more [[fulfilling life]].
	  
	  The author suggests that the stoics can be regarded as emotional preppers because they prepare for difficult times and strive to minimize negative emotions. They also practice what they preach and are known to be cheerful individuals who appreciate and savor the positive emotions they experience. Furthermore, they have an insight that much of our unhappiness is self-inflicted, and they strive to frame negative experiences in a way that can extract the light from them.
	  
	  The author states that the difference between a lower case s and the Stoics approach to emotions is that the lower case s stoics do not experience emotions, whereas the Stoics aim to minimize negative emotions and savor positive ones. They also prepare themselves for difficult situations, so that they can remain grateful for the good things in their lives and experience joy.
-
- [[Cognitive diffusion]] is a technique that can be used to reduce the distance between thoughts, allowing viewers to experience a sense of detachment from their initial thought. This can be helpful in reducing the power of thoughts over one's [[emotions]], as high levels of experiential [[avoidance]] are directly correlated with increased [[risk]] of [[depression]], [[anxiety disorders]], [[addiction]], and other [[mental health]] issues.