title:: 10 Lessons on Bootstrapping a $200m Business | Patrick Campbell (highlights)
author:: [[Lenny's Podcast: Product | Growth | Career]]
full-title:: "10 Lessons on Bootstrapping a $200m Business | Patrick Campbell"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/1cc46cc2-5cc9-4877-8a2a-82241bb4d3e6

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- Curse on first principles, how to use them
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* People always talk about problem cause solution, but few find good courses or resources to learn it., * Problem cause solution is a framework for thinking that can be helpful for many different situations., * Problem cause solution can be helpful for strategy templates, mission, and other areas of work.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  People always talk about it and I have. There are no good courses that I have found. On first principles thinking there are good blog posts, but the good blog posts kind of explain what it is. And then that's kind of it. Like it's like this is what it is. And here's an example and most of them quote Elon Musk about rockets and breaking down, you know, the different parts. So what I kind of found is there's the five wise, which I think someone's talked before, at least I've read it in the newsletter before, which is just you keep asking why, right? You know, you kind of, well, this is this way. Well, why is that? Well, this is this way. Why is that? Because I think we've found the model that people who aren't great at first principle thinking or aren't great at talking about it, that kind of helps them unlock is this thing called problem cause solution. So I learned this in debate in college and high school. And it basically is you have a problem that you're trying to solve. Well, you can't actually solve a problem. So if we talk about world hunger, you can't just solve world hunger because it's kind of the symptom. It's this problem that exists. Well, then I want to break down what are all the causes of world hunger, right? And it's a little more brainstorming when you have these conversations with folks, especially again, when they struggle with this. And all of a sudden I can list out all the causes, irrigation crisis, aid not getting to where it needs to be, you know, famine, drought, et cetera. And then what I can do is I can rank those causes in terms of like magnitude, right? So if we're trying to solve world hunger, and for some reason we discovered irrigation was the biggest problem. Like if we solve irrigation, you know, everything would be great. Well, then I'm going to align my solutions to all of those different causes. And you get this like nice alignment between like and solve a cause. And if I solve the cause that's big enough and proper enough, I'm going to eventually solve the actual problem or mitigate the problem, I should say. So that's the framework that I found really, really useful. And it also, it also, it's great for using for presentations. It's great for mission. It's great for all of these different things because it's a little bit more actionable than just the five wise, which is more of a way to have a conversation.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  So the way you operationalize this, a problem cause solution. You're saying like on strategy templates, you kind of write out, here's the problem we're trying to solve. Here's the source of the issue. And then here's our approaching it. You can talk a bit more about how you implement this at your company, the people you work with. Yeah, totally.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  So I'll say big, medium and small things and I'll try to be really quick. So big things, it's like, what are we facing? We're going to try to charge for this metrics product. Now there's a bunch of competitors, the customers don't really care about it. So we have this problem and the problem is growth. Right? Like how do we grow a product like this? How do we grow our company, right? And what's really interesting about like a big problem or a nebulous problem like that is you end up having a lot of conversations about the problem, which I think is more useful sometimes about like, well, what are we actually trying to do? Like let's get alignment as much as possible. And then it's like, okay, well, what are the causes of our growth problem? Well, people aren't willing to pay for metrics. Getting accuracy is really, really hard actually. The market stands all these other things. Well, what are some of the solutions? Well, we could do this, could do this, could do this. And normally what ends up happening is the solution ends up being kind of an approach. So our approach that kind of mitigated some or solve for some of these causes and mitigate the problem was, freemium, and then these paid products that were all pay for performance because with paper performance, you could charge a significant amount more in a market that only has like 100,000 logos, right, which is a really small market. And so that's kind of an example there. Medium and small, like, let's talk about a support ticket, right? Like this person's pissed off. They're coming in, they're pissed off. Well, what are the causes? Well, there's a lot of different causes that were probably like, oh, we didn't get back to them in time. And then we gave a crappy solution. We gave this. It just kind of allows us to kind of like look at the problem. And so it's more of a way of thinking on that level. And it's not happening, you know, we're not going to have an hour long conversation about a support ticket, but the support folks that I talked to about this, they go, okay, cool. Why is he upset? Well, we didn't get the answer in time. Okay, my first line is going to be, I understand we didn't get you an answer quick enough, like apologies for that. You know, it just allows them to have a little bit of like an extra second to kind of think through things and kind of move forward with that. ([Time 0:35:02](https://share.snipd.com/snip/067c4907-518d-4d56-bccc-df388c3ddcf7))