title:: 104. Ken Stanley - AI Without Objectives (highlights)
author:: [[Towards Data Science]]
full-title:: "104. Ken Stanley - AI Without Objectives"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/487adb87-364b-4842-b84c-3fb7cc20fbdd

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Product Market Fit
	  
	  Summary:
	  i think the problem is that we don't actually think of these things in a principled way. So people are doing this instinctully, so it's like, we'll just do because it's the right thing to do. And eventually somebody will find a different pek that's even better than yours. That happens all the time. But for a while it makes sense, and it cant make sense. I think you need to be able to understand or it maybe it's that that's the easy thing to do,. i'm not saying there's exceptions but too many companies still operate as objective driven types of organizations. Yet they have to acknowledge that sometimes being objectively driven has swum too far
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Yet, i actually, i do wonder if it might have something to do with, like, the geometry of the the landscape of value. So in start ups, you talk about product market fit a lot, this magical moment when you know you have a product, all f a sudden people want it, and you've gone, you've crossed this chasm from building pere crap to now the spark of magic has happened. And this is usual, very abrupt transition, partly because the peaks in product space are super narrow. Like you can take a tessla and you subtract one thing, like one wheel, and now this is a useless piece of crab nobody wants. That might seem like a big thing to remove, but in product space, that is one increment. So in all these different ways, you have this incredibly narrow peak. And finding that peak is such a precious thing. In order to find it, you need to be exploratory. You need to be looking for noveltyd and kind of be innocent and open anded in that way. But then the moment you find it, it's like, o my god. We ught to protect this. And then this whole business ossifies around preventing any one person from nudging you off that peak. And then you have people looking at these big businesses and don't realize that they're selecting on the ones that have already found product market fit. Ndthey're going, oh, look at that. Google has a ton of ok rs. We should have ok ors too. And then all of a sudden you lose your novelty.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeit's true. It's situation like, what's really appropriate, like, lik, you have to be realistic. And and so so even though like, like, i'm going around talking bout how bad objectives are. Like i acknowledge, in some situations it does make sense. Like when you've found that peak and you're on that peak, especaly f you're alone on that peak, ok, you can do this kind of like hyper optimization and just like extremely a searcher round that peak. And that's different than what i'm talking about. It's true that in the long run, you're taking another kind of risk because you're miopic and like you might be missing something. And eventually somebody will find a different pek that's even better than yours. And that happens all the time. Less meyou see, like tese, eventually what people call disruption. But for a while it makes sense, and it cant make sense. M instead, i mean, you ma, crazy. You like to go, let's go find another peak. We've just found ther er. But, but, but still. Em, yes, lick, i think what the problem is that we, we don't, we don't actually think of these things in a principled way. So people are doing this instinctully. So it's like, we'll just do because it's the right thing to do. We do t all these risk o mitigations and accountability and stuff like that. Andtcrat mass of burcratic processes. And it din run a thinking about what the the the risk, what ratio is here, or like, what we need to do to get innovation. We're just doing it because, like, while it seems like that's like a really principled thing to do, like, that's what we do en like, like, real serious organizations. And that is a mistake. I think you need to be able to understand or it maybe it's that that's the easy thing to do, like, it's actually, we understand those principles. We understand accountability. We understand measurement, like moving towards a goal, and knowing how far being accurate in our measurements, like thit. Thisis like, tons of stuff written about those. People understand this. So you geti all over the place. It's like just like proliferating, like a virus. But the thing that you don't get is this more kind of divergent type of process. And so i'm acknowledging it's not appropriate in all cases. But the problem is that where it is appropriate, nobody really grapples with it or thinks about it or understands it. And so you get, i think you get it in balance, the pendulum swings way towards the objective type of thinking. And we're missing opportunities, especially institutions meant to foster innovation, which include some companies that have parts that are supposed to foster innovation, like research laps inside, certain companies still operate like objectively driven types of organizations. Not all. I mean, i'm not saying all. And also, there's exceptions, but a lot too. And so we do, i think, end up with a somewhat distorted, like perverted system over all, even though we have to acknowledge that sometimes being objectively driven as ok, just a pendulum has swum too far. ([Time 0:45:03](https://share.snipd.com/snip/f042d39d-86c3-40a7-af81-336b73426bdd))