title:: 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/12-rules-for-life/
document_note:: Jordan Peterson's "12 Rules for Life" is an attempt to provide guidance on how to live a meaningful life that balances chaos and order. He emphasizes the importance of taking care of yourself, making good friends, setting achievable goals, and striving for peace and beauty. He also encourages individuals to take responsibility for their actions and avoid lying, as it is a "road to hell". He cautions against expecting too much from others and instead encourages people to focus on improving themselves. Furthermore, he encourages people to acknowledge the complexities of the world and aim for courage and clarity in order to call forth problems and course correct. Lastly, he suggests that people should focus on becoming something rather than being something in order to achieve growth and happiness.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- Having predictable daily routines offsets much chaos, unpredictability and ultimately fear that many people experience - go to sleep and wake up at similar times, have a high protein and fat breakfast. Many difficulties stem from biological imbalance and if we can get our sleep, diet, health in order, we can better manage anything that comes at us ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7he3yawebj0adjnpd3yv0))
	- •   1.  If you start to straighten up, people might just start looking at you and treating you differently. Your nervous system responds totally differently when you take on a challenge directly as opposed to being forced into it. Being higher up in the food chain, in the social hierarchy, has obvious social, physical, psychological, physiological effects which ripple into everything we do or undertake ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7hp1mgtcbzmx1sz4nkrwr))
	- Peterson argues that because you know your own faults better than anyone else, how meaningless and flawed you are, you have trouble taking care of ourselves like we would others. We don’t respect ourselves and see ourselves as falling creatures. We don’t stand for and walk with the truth so can’t take care of ourselves in the way that someone who did would. Most people simply do not believe they deserve the best care. However, although we are not a God, we are something, we matter. You have a moral obligation to take care of yourself as best as you can because it not only benefits you but ripples and benefits others as well. You deserve to be taken care of and to be healthy and happy ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7hy8n4a5dxwyy8ar3hs77))
	- Make friends with those who want the best for you
	  
	  3.  Good influences will encourage you and not put up with your flaws. They will push you to be a better person and to strive for more, for better.
	  4.  Those who are bad influences will try to drag you down for every improvement you make in your life only makes them more aware of their own inadequacies ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7j63785xs8d0thcqge8br))
	- *What you aim at is what you see. That's worth repeating. What you aim at is what you see.* Overtime this accumulates and progresses. This is magic. This is compound interest. Seeing is difficult and very cognitively expensive so you must shepherd your resources carefully. You must ignore the unmanageable complexity found in the world and march towards your goal. You see obstacles as they arise and find a way around them. However, you must balance this with knowing when to back off for marching blindly towards your goal will make you unaware of other, potentially better, opportunities. If we accept that we are blind to most of the world, we also must accept that most of the opportunities are outside of our awareness. This is incredibly uplifting because it means that finding different paths, more opportunities is always available ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7jg1yyh5b7a8kqmpz0dve))
		- **Note**: When you want something, you focus on it and you will be able to see it. Working hard towards your goal will help you get closer to it. You should try to ignore the complicated things in the world and focus on your goal. You should work hard, but also be aware that you might miss out on other great opportunities if you don’t take a break and look around. We can’t always see all the possibilities, but that’s okay because there are always more chances to find something better.
	- Understanding resentment, revenge, and the dark side of humanity is very helpful but you must come to know these in yourself before you can judge others. It is only through the difficult self-work needed to make your life better, the little things that you know you can do or stop doing in order to make yourself happier, to make your life simpler, to make the lives of those around you better. Only once you have acted on all these and have gained this self-knowledge, can you begin to look outward and expect more of others. Once you see how hard it is to expect these things of yourself, you will better understand others and not have sky high expectations ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7m4n8qcp7w9ak2042e21a))
		- **Note**: It can be helpful to know about things like anger and wanting to get revenge. But before you try to understand or judge other people, you must first take a look at yourself. You should think about all the small things you can do to make your life better and help the people around you. After you have worked hard to make your life better, it will be easier to understand other people and not expect too much from them.
	- Never underestimate the power of omissions. When things get swept under the rug and are not discussed and flushed out, they grow and manifest and become worse than you could ever imagine. If only they were brought up early and transparently and discussed openly, they could be called out, named, and dealt with. Everything discussed becomes clarified and gives you the potential to at least remedy them. If you avoid rather than address, what you least want will eventually come to happen, at the worst possible time. To specify the problem is to admit it exists, to admit what it is that you want. This may hurt but it is far better than the alternative and in the other way you cannot fail as you have not admitted what it is you want but this path leads you quickly astray. Be brave. *Risk conflict in the present for longer term peace and happiness* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7nx612tgvj2dabqxqzh0r))
		- **Note**: When there is a problem, it is important to talk about it and find a solution. If you try to ignore or hide the problem, it will get bigger and worse than you can imagine. Eventually, it will come back and cause trouble at the worst possible time. It can be scary to talk about what is wrong, but it is the only way to fix it. You must be brave and face the problem now so that you can have peace and happiness later.
	- If we are imprecise with our speech, things remain vague, we are in the fog, our destination is unknown. *Courageous clarity of thought is needed to call forth the problem* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7prjfnp5kjwz2acjt31h3))
		- **Note**: Vague and foggy speech:🤐
		  Courageous clarity needed💪
		  to call forth the problem🤔
	- [[Consciousness]] is the thin veil the process that turns order into chaos. It has been proposed that the two hemispheres of the brain exist in order to deal one with order and the other with chaos. Meaning, progress, and fulfillment is found when you have 1 foot in order and 1 foot in chaos - providing some stability and routine while still being able to learn and grow. This is the straight and narrow path to flow and all progress. A good question for parents regarding chaos and order is do you want to make kids safe or strong? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7qh136gtvj2esqn53r3ec))
		- **Tags**: #[[consciousness]]
		- **Note**: This text discusses the idea that consciousness can turn order into chaos and proposes that having one foot in order and one foot in chaos is the path to fulfillment, progress, and flow. It also poses a question to parents to consider whether they want to make their children safe or strong.