title:: 134. How to Structure Teams Approaching M&A Diligence (highlights)
author:: [[M&A Science]]
full-title:: "134. How to Structure Teams Approaching M&A Diligence"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/a0c2da5c-b669-494e-b8be-8c188a7655b7

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- The Biggest Risk of Any Transaction is Culture
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Culture is a very important part of any deal, and it's important to be aware of how a target makes decisions in order to avoid cultural clashes., * It's important to take the time to understand a target's culture before integrating into their company, so that there are no surprises.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  I actuoly like the way you explain it as here's the functional lead, and this what they should own. That i actually going to steal it from you. I'll cre o free from time to time.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  That's fine.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Just one thought i was curious about was, how much of your deals are banked versus proprietary. Great question. We're fortunate n the majority of our deals are proprietary. They're bilateral. I like to have you calls it a fortunate thing. In it's an absolutey fortunet, right?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Think about it, the biggest risk of any transaction is culture. Culture each strategy breakfast the most strategic deal on the planet. If youve got cultural miss match, it's a deal away is just not going to work. But if you're in a bilaberal, you get a lot of time with the other side. Maybe you've got exposure to them before, if you know the people and know the organization, and you've got a 20 year working relationship with the cellar founder and the key management team membersthen. That's a different story altogether. But if this is something new that's come across, that's approached you with idea, and you can engage them in a bilateral and you can spend a lot of time with them, it helps you ascess culture. If you're running a process, and this is the first time you're meeting, you get what you get, a management presentation for four hours, and there may be a couple one o ones and a few other potential discussions come on four hours at hold kobuki theatre. Man, i can convince you, i'm scottish, for four hours this make any sense at all.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  So glad you said that. Was just on another podcast, and i've had to let that point out that it's like any fundamental decision. If you make a quick, impulsive decision, there's a higher probability it's going to be a bad decision. Versus if you really use time as your friend and take all this information and put the considerationigetin on.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I was really proud of the work we did together as a team age cart organization us. We actually built a tool to assess culture in an analytic way. Ah, and it wasn't a wet tiht that we directed everybody towards. And i'l give mackenzie credit, one of the partners there, opened my eyes to the fact that potentially we could measure it. And then we went through the pain and suffering of actually building a tool to do that. It turned out better than expected, because what we didn't want to do is create a new exercise that we had to put in place. The first digeration was, what we want to do is direct all of their people to this web site and fill out the following question. Ere is that really practical? It is. There isn't an ain place. Most of the people of the organization aren't aware that you're going through a transaction and asking them to fill out this cultural question er isn't really practical. So what can we do? And what wee figured out was listen. Through the diligence process, you're likely engaging with a lot of different oneon ones, in different interactions with dife people through the organization. And there are other art efects that you're requesting that speak to employ ambook, how they make decisions, what their benefit plans look like, what how they promote hiring practices, how they make strategic decisions. The engagement, when you're talking to the i t lead their c i o, what decision making authority do they have? How do they plan? How do they make decisions? You can gather a lot of data. You actually are thering a whole bunch of data that is applicable to culture already. So what you need to do though is just gather that data, evaluated with an eye towards what is to say about culture. And so what we did is we did that. We went through, we developed up the tool, we execute that tool on the on the target that weere acquiring. But then we also executed it on ourselvesbecause while we were an aeon at least, we were very culture driven, and we had a strong central culture around the organization. You know, there were regional variances. A on brazil isn't exactly like a on the us, which isn't aon france or the u. K. So you wanted to make sure that you understood the culture of the company that you are entigrating into. And objective wasn't to say, what is a good deal and where, what deals should we walk away from? It was really more with an eye towards h these are the areas of where friction is going s. Be sensitive to it and build, i buildte intigration plan with that knowledge, so that you accommodte the cultural differences between the two organizations. In some instances, i raised my hand, i said, i really think this is a bad idea. Small geals beintegrating into a specific, specific country. And if the distellers culture was that different from our own, sometimes you do raise your hand and say, economic aside, i think this is really rable idea. This will not integrate well. This will be destructive. This will cause more problems than we invision. And more often than not, that's exactly what happens. And it's not because i i'm really good. Im not at all. It's just culture is that important? If you see cultural conflict, good economics are an overcome then. But also being aware of how they make decisions, how your target allocates authority, that needs to be incorporated in your integration pan. ([Time 0:52:01](https://share.snipd.com/snip/feb116d0-1b1c-4d6f-b1ff-054cbb4f53d3))