title:: 139 Laurie Santos —  the Pursuit of Happiness (highlights)
author:: [[The Knowledge Project with Shane Parrish]]
full-title:: "\#139 Laurie Santos —  the Pursuit of Happiness"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/71d78afe-b389-4888-897a-44c0afc7d939

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- Does Community & Religion Make You Happier?
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Religion has been shown to be correlated with happiness on average, but this is mostly due to the religious behaviors that are involved, not from the religious beliefs themselves., * There are many other institutions that can provide the same benefits as religion, such as crossfit groups or spiritual communities.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Is there an element of community in that, and feeling like, i feel like we have the psychological need to feel a part of something larger than ourselves. And whether it's a sports team or, you know, it's even a sharing a connection with a friend. And that's become harder in some s. Drink oved definitely.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I mean, if i yo, hen, i list out tips for how to feel happier, often the first one is improve your social connection. Every available study of happy people suggests that happy people are more social. They prioritize time with their friends and family members, but they're also just, like, around other people more often, like, they, they and, and we forget that, right? I think our instinct is like, oh, you know, i'll hang out with other people when i'm feeling social or i'm in a better mood, you know, when i'm kind of feeling in a bad mood, i want to plop down privately and like, watch net flakes or something. But there's so many studies showing that if you intervene and force people to a little bit more social, they wind up feeling happier, even with strangers. Is ares some lovely work by nick epley and his colleagues showing that if you force somebody to talk to a stranger on the train, on their commute to work, for example, they wind up in a happier mood. They predict it's going to suck, like, they predict it's going to be awkward, and i don't really want to talk to somebody, and when i feel anxious cause i didn't get as much work done. But in practice, it just puts you in a better mood that set you up for the day. And i feel like all those little, tiny weak ties, social connections, we had, you know, the the accidental talk with somebody on a train, even if you don't really strike up a conversation, you probably smile at people, or yo, say hi to the person when you're turning the ticket in yo, talking to the briest at the coffee shop. You know, the chit chat that you get in office on the way to the elevator wherer you're going. All those little moments got taken away at the height of the pendemic, and for many of us, got taken away when we're still working from home. And i think we, again, these are invisible, little like hits on our well being that we often see. But yes, social connection is a big one. And when, when you add to that the reduction of these ritualsy that makes it even worse. Overtime.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  How do you think about the role of religion and happiness then? Because it strikes me, as you're talking, that religion had a ritual around most of these things. You would go to church every sunday. You would see people, you would connect with them. You w'ud see different people than you you would get a different perspective on life. Talk to me about that.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Ye, well, there's lots of work that's specifically looked at religion and happiness. And over all, what that work finds is that religious individuals tend to be happier on average. But you could imagine that's for two reasons. One is that, you know, many religions come with a whole host of, you know, spiritual beliefs about, you know, the after life, about, you know, a god, and whether there's someone taking care of you, you know, power bigger than you and so on. These religions also involve the thing that i think you're getting at, which is all these rituals, relik, they force you to be a little bit more social o, you like, hang out with everybody on sunday or on the sabbath, or something like that. Um, often they involve doing nice things for other people and being present in prayer and so on. And so when scientists really try to dig into that, which is tricky, you have to separate, you know, people who are very religious, you know, then they have really beliefs, but then don't go to services as much and so on, versus people who are kind of like you know, i say i'm catholic, but i'm kind of agnostic. But like, you know, i go every sunday and i go to the spaghetti suppers and so on. When you really do that work, what you find is that the effect of the correlation between a religion and happiness seems to be pretty fully mediated by those religious behaviors. So going to church, am doing nice things for other people, you know, taking part in altruistic acts. It seems like it's actually religious behaviors that are making us happy, not religious beliefs. What does that mean? That means that any kind of cultural institution that gets us todo the stuff we were just talking about that makes you happier, you know, social connection, doing nice things for others, being a little bit more president, we haven't talked about that yet, but things like prayer and meditation are, you know, great mechanisms for being in the present moment. Any institution that gets you to do that, it's probably going to make you happier. Um, it's awesome to do that in the the contexts of, like, religious institutions. Cause, like, man, those are like, set up with a whole belief structure around why you have to do that stuff. You often they're like, thousands of years old. Im, i'm forgetting the quote from big lobowski, but it's like a, you know, i think walter says, you know, like, like, you have thousands of years of tradition from, you know, moses to stanley co facs, kind of thing about the jewish faith. And i think you has the same thing about so many religions. It's not just like some ritual i made up and i'm trying to get my family to do. It's now one that's thousands of years old and has a lot of tradition behind it. And so, yes, these are powerful institutions for helping us put into practice these kinds of behaviours that will improve happiness. But it's worth noting that it doesn't have to be just religion. Im, the divinity scholar casper turkl has been studying, ah, you know, other kinds of institutions that are starting to do thath. I'm thinking of things like, younow, you're a cross fit group, right? Her, this really intense cross fit group that you meet with every week. And if somebody sick or gets no breast cancer or something, they, you do all these events for you're present with them in a different way. You feel like you have this holistic identity, if it turns out that does a lot of the same work, right? Um. So you see, you need something, we'd like a sticking power. In religions have special sticking power, and part because they shape our identities and our beliefs, ems, but if you can find other things that work, a that can work too, you don't necessarily the the, the benefits don't seem to come from the beliefs as much from the behaviors.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  I like how you distinguish between the behaviors and the beliefs. And the the sounds like the organization, then, of religion is just a way to get the behavior sand. It comes with a set of beliefs, but you don't need the set of beliefs in order to acquire the behaviors. ([Time 0:29:23](https://share.snipd.com/snip/7a5873db-3141-4512-9cf0-52bd2b150fc2))
	- WWW: What for, Why now, What else (questions to ask when you're mindlessly checking your phone)
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* We should try to do better in terms of our behaviours and how we're feeling, in order to improve our relationships., * Catherine Price's book, "How to Break Up with Your Phone," is a good resource for this., * We should ask ourselves what our purpose for being on our phone is, and whether or not we're actually achieving it.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  How can we do a little bit better? And and one of my favourite pieces of advice that i share with my students comes from the journalist a catherine price, who has this lovely book called how to break up with your phone, where she argues, you don't have to break up with your phone b if to, like, take it to couples counselling, basi e, negotiate the relationship. And she his this lovely nim a that she uses called w w w, which stands for what for why now and what else. Sho, she argues, like, whenever you find yourself on your phone, goso, again, sometimes at social media, but you're, for me, sometimes as email, or like, looking at my text threat, or looking at something else that's doing all those same things that's stealing my attention, preventing me from connecting with people in real life, and so on. And so, you know, you find yourself with your phone in your hand, think, w w w what for? What? What did i pick up this phone for? Was there a purpose? En i was checking the weather, i had a specific text that i was looking at. Or again, just like wind up, you know, like, am i just down some rabbit hole of some stuff? I was looking at my phone, that's frent um, why now? Right? Like, what was the trigger? Maybe, again, there was like some specific goal, or it maybe i was feeling anxious, or i was feeling bored, or it's just become this habit that, you now, i pull it out when i'm walking, right? Like, you know what? Why are you really on there now? And then the critical question is, like, what else? A sort of opportunity quass questionis, like, what are you missing out on being on your phone? Maybe it's noticing the daffodils. Maybe it's talking to your spouse at dinner, right? Maybe, you know, it could be a million different things. But like, when you mindfully and intentionally pay attention, what else could you be doing? And she argues that a strategy like that might help us, because it's not like these technologies are awful. ([Time 0:40:00](https://share.snipd.com/snip/cade65d2-976a-421f-800a-27c8f3a97e0b))