title:: 144 - Phil Maffetone —  Optimizing Health and Performance Through Maximal Aerobic Function (highlights)
author:: [[The Peter Attia Drive]]
full-title:: "\#144 - Phil Maffetone —  Optimizing Health and Performance Through Maximal Aerobic Function"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/485ade32-75ed-45db-9a29-c57f29bb755a

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Can You Run Faster At The Same Heart Rate?
	  
	  Summary:
	  A month is long enough for some people, but not long enough for others. Professional athletes are really hard to get because they don't want to do this. The bottom line is can you the athlete run faster at the same sub max? Hartwright: Once in a while, i see an athlete who knows exactly where they are. They know exactly when they could run at that max fat burning level.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  So, i mean, it would be interesting to see if with a larger sample size, that is still the case, and obviously at different levels of the athletes incoming right? In other words, is that true of recreational athletes only? Is it also true of high level athletes?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yah, these were students. I think jeff has done, jeff ollock has done some some studies with the higher level athletes, with some ultra athletes. Again, they're, they're not running as fast, but they're running at a max level. These were students, and these were subjects who, the ones who who were on the very carbohydrate diet. Were only there for a month, and my feeling is we really should have gone longer. I think we could have seen different results. But but they are only there for a month. A month is long enough for some people, but not long enough for others. And is a good argument to make that, you know, it should be two months, or even three months, to really stabilize that metabolic change. But whatever, it was a good study. And you know, like other studies, somebody will see it and say, how this should be done with more people. Just like you said, let's get more numbers. Let's get a wider age group. Let's get beginners athletes, you know, middle of the pack runners, professional athletes. Professional athletes are really hard to get because they don't want to do this. They don't want to go lab and do that. But from a clinical standpoint, i love all these studies. I love being involved with them, but for me, the bottom line is, can you the athlete run faster at the same sub max? Hartwright, in fact, i don't care what you do with your training or your diet. If you could run faster at the same heart rate. As the months go by, whatever you're doing is working, keep doing it. So that maertes is so powerful that that's really the only thing you have to sell people on. And then when they start seeing that they're theyre not getting faster, or when they see they've gotten faster, and now they're going to start doing some way, train in fatiguing type, weight training, or they're doing some intervals, and then they get slower. You know, now you've got their attention. Now you say, ye see, do you understand what's happeninga you know, they start feeling it, because they say, well, you know, i i felt it wasn't quite right. Oh, i didn't feel comfortable doing that, or, i so when i first started using a heart monitor, i thought, s this is interesting. This is bio feedback. By definition. We're we're going to listen to, or ere going to look at our heart rate, and we're going to respond to what that heart rate does. And the goal is to be able to do that without this heart monitor. So i thought, really, these heart monitors were just of one use, maybeor maybe spend a whole week doing it. Now you how to run at one 30 hard rate. It never happened. Once in a while, i see an athlete who knows exactly where they are. They know exactly when they could run at that max fat burning level. And i've always been amazed by that. And there are some good ones and some mediocre runners who who were able to do that. But most people, we are in no pain, no gain world, and were in injuries because someone watches the new york city marathon and t v, and the next day they go out and they want to run like that lead pack runner. They want to stride out like, you know, come on, man. You can't even break four hours in the marathon. No wonder you got injured. ([Time 1:01:02](https://share.snipd.com/snip/16afbfa5-d471-4294-a0e6-1cd912c29216))