title:: 150 TKP Insights —  Making (Even) Better Decisions (highlights)
author:: [[The Knowledge Project with Shane Parrish]]
full-title:: "\#150 TKP Insights —  Making (Even) Better Decisions"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/285b38e9-a065-4cc3-b426-f4ac9913795d

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- Optimizing Decision Making in an Organization
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Decision making in organizations is a bit overrated because it is more fluid and continuous than binary., * At Stripe, they design feedback mechanisms to help people learn from their decisions.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 4
	  Part of culture is learning from the decisions the organization makes. What do you do at Stripe to make sure that people are learning? And what do you do personally to make sure that you're learning from the decisions that you've made both positive and perhaps ones that you in retrospect would have wished you could make differently?
	  
	  Speaker 5
	  I'm inclined to say, I don't know if I actually believe this, but I'm inclined to say in response to that question that decision making in organizations is slightly overrated in that organizations are not like investment entities or funds or managers in that organizations, well, with investing, it's fundamentally very binary. There is a moment at which you either buy or don't or sell or don't or whatever. And maybe it's somewhat more continuous in the case of say, public market investing and so on. But given sort of constraints on decision making time, I think you've to treat it as a bit more binary. You assess the stock and you make a buy or not decision. Whereas in organizations, everything is much more fluid and continuous. It's much more about I think designing the feedback mechanisms. You know, the biologic. Yeah, exactly. And there's the famous sort of water model of the economy with the sort of circulating fluids and you can vary the interest rate or the inflation rate or whatever, but just kind of try to get a sense for the overall kind of biological apparatus. And I think an organization is much more like that. And so I think the things to optimize are the incentive structures and the mindsets and the definitions of the goals and the feedback mechanisms from the outcomes to the inputs and the work and the operations themselves and all of those things, unless the binary decisions. And I want to kind of completely dismiss obviously the important decision making in that there are times we have decided, well, are we going to launch this product or not? Are we going to start this project or not? Are we going to replace the system or not? And so on. So there are of course real decisions, but I think it tends to be much more, well, I guess maybe it doesn't feel like the right unit of analysis to me. I think the right unit of analysis is that of the cell. And the question is, well, in an organization, what are the cells and what are the organs and how do they interact for the feedback mechanisms between them?
	  
	  Speaker 4
	  Let's geek out a little bit on the feedback mechanisms here. What sort of feedback mechanisms do you try to make sure are in place? What point in the process do you try to acknowledge what they are?
	  
	  Speaker 5
	  I really think that, and this is not to evade the question, but I really think it's too early to answer that. In the sense that I can kind of tell you what I think today and the sort of changes we've made over the last year and things like that, but Stripe has been a thousand person organization for more than 500 person organization for just over a year. We're beginners at this. And three years ago, Stripe was under 100 people. And I think either to opine as if, or to even more problematically believe that we kind of have it figured out, would be real hubris. And so kind of what we've been talking about. I think that's maybe some of where our and my thinking comes from. But I don't know what the right answers are yet. And we spend a lot of our time sort of scrutinizing other organizations trying to find out and kind of reverse engineer what works for them and why. And I think that part of what's interesting about the tech industry is that it's a kind of pure knowledge work that we're still I think quite early in sort of figuring out in terms of how to optimally coordinate it and collaborate on it. In that you can sort of draw a lineage of HP and Intel and Microsoft and Google and Facebook and so on. WhatsApp. And there are all these sort of suggestive examples that I think at least again, suggest that we may not have it all figured out. I mean, the fact that WhatsApp was such a miniscule team and Instagram too, of course, despite operating at such a scale. Or the fact that the way a new paradigm. Yeah, yeah. And the way kind of Facebook operates is very different to the way you know, HP operated. ([Time 0:44:05](https://share.snipd.com/snip/ac76f417-ed27-4aa3-a72c-d3361f2001ca))