title:: 155 – Max Tegmark —  AI and Physics (highlights)
author:: [[Lex Fridman Podcast]]
full-title:: "\#155 – Max Tegmark —  AI and Physics"
category:: #podcasts

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- The Intuition of Chess
	  
	  Summary:
	  We thought that about chess, right? That eactly that th the ability to see like ten, fifteen, sometimes twenty steps ahead was not a calculation that humans were performing. But then you have like alpha. I guess zero be the first one that did ae self play. It just came up with this. The difference was, no human told it how good the position is. It just learned it. We'll learn what the good board position is regardless of whether it's chess or go or shoge or packman and lady packman. And so combining the intuition that with these brute force capabilities could help physics too.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  I mean, that's such a human thing of that moment of genius of figuring out the intuition of, of good, essentially. I mean, we thought that that was, maybe it's not right. We thought that about chess, right? Exactly. And the ability to see like 10, 15, sometimes 20 steps ahead was not a calculation that humans were performing. It was some kind of weird intuition about different patterns about board positions, about the relative positions. Exactly. Somehow stitching stuff together. And a lot of it is just like intuition. But then you have like alpha, I guess zero be the first one that did the self play. It just came up with this. It was able to learn through self play mechanism, this kind of intuition. Exactly. But just like you said, it's so fascinating to think, well, they're in the space of totally new ideas. Can that be done in developing theorems?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  We know it can be done by neural networks because we did it with the neural networks in the craniums of the great mathematicians of humanity, right? And I'm so glad you brought up alpha zero because that's the counter example. It turned out we were flattering ourselves. And we said intuition is something different. It's only humans can do it. It's not information processing. If it used to be that way, again, it's really instructive, I think, to compare the chess computer deep blue that beat Kasparv with alpha zero, the beat Lisa doll at the go. Because for deep blue, there was no intuition. There was some pro humans had programmed in some intuition after humans had played a lot of games. They told the computer, you know, count the pawn as one point. The Bishop is three points. Rook is five points and so on. You add it all up and then you add some extra points for past pawns and subtract if the opponent has it and blah, blah, blah. And then what deep blue did was just search. Just very brute force and tried many, many moves ahead. All these combinations and a prune research and it could think much faster than Kasparv and at one. And that I think inflated our egos in a way shouldn't have because people started to say, yeah, yeah, it's just brute force search, but has no intuition. Alpha zero really popped our bubble there because what alpha zero does, yes, it does also do some of that tree search. But it also has this intuition module which in geek speak is called a value function, where it just looks at the board and comes up with a number for how good is that position. The difference was no human told it's how good the position is. It just learned it. And mu zero is the coolest or scariest of all, depending on your mood because it's the same basic AI system will learn what the good board position is regardless of whether it's chess or go or shogi or britt Pac-Man or lady Pac-Man or breakout or space invaders or any number, bunch of other games. You don't tell anything and it gets this intuition after a while for what's good. So this is very hopeful for science, I think, because if it can get intuition for what's a good position there, maybe it can also get intuition for what are some good directions to go if you're trying to prove something. I often, one of the most fun things in my science career is when I've been able to prove some theorem about something and it's very heavily intuition guided, of course. I don't sit and try all random strings. I have a hunch that this reminds me a little bit about this other proof I've seen for this thing. So maybe I first, what if I try this? Nah, that didn't work out. But this reminds me actually the way this failed reminds me of that. So combining the intuition with all these boot for-state capabilities, I think it's going to be able to help physics too. ([Time 2:29:53](https://share.snipd.com/snip/1358e94e-b209-4770-9393-a9af11dc35ce))