title:: 191 – Daniel Schmachtenberger —  Steering Civilization Away From Self-Destruction (highlights)
author:: [[Lex Fridman Podcast]]
full-title:: "\#191 – Daniel Schmachtenberger —  Steering Civilization Away From Self-Destruction"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/94f7482b-f556-4838-ac0d-540139f955d9

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- How to actually make society better: seek Dialectic Synthesis (higher order understanding to fulfill values)
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Perspective seeking is important in order to understand other people's worldviews and find a higher order synthesis., * Perspective taking is important in order to understand and embody different worldviews.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  I think one of the fastest things people can do to improve their learning and they're not just cognitive learning, but they're meaningful, problem solving, communication and civic capacity, capacity to participate as a citizen with other people and making the world better is to be seeking dialectical synthesis all the time. And so in the Hegelian sense, if you have a thesis, you have an antithesis. So maybe we have libertarianism on one side and Marxist kind of communism on the other side. And one is arguing that the individual is the unit of choice. And so we want to increase the freedom and support of individual choice because as they make more agentic choices, it'll produce a better whole for everybody. The other side saying, well, the individuals are conditioned by their environment who would choose to be born into Darfur rather than Finland. So we actually need to collectively make environments that are good because that the environment conditions the individuals. So you have a thesis and an antithesis. And then Hegel's idea is you have a synthesis, which is a kind of higher order truth that understands how those relate in a way that neither of them do. And so it is actually at a higher order of complexity. So the first part would be, can I steelman each of these? Can I argue each one well enough that the proponents of it are like totally you got that? And not just argue it rhetorically, but can I inhabit it where I can try to see and feel the world the way someone seeing and feeling the world that way would? Because once I do, then I don't want to screw those people because there's truth in it, right? And I'm not going to go back to war with them. I'm going to go to finding solutions that could actually work at a higher order. If I don't go to a higher order, then there's war. And but then the higher order thing would be, well, it seems like the individual does affect the commons and the collective and other people. It also seems like the collective conditions, individuals at least statistically. And I can cherry pick out the one guy who got out of the ghetto and pulled himself up by his bootstraps. But I can also say statistically that most people born into the ghetto show up differently than most people born into the Hamptons. And so unless you want to argue that and have you take your child from the Hamptons and put them in the ghetto, then like, come on, be realistic about this thing. So how do we make? We don't want social systems that make weak dependent individuals, right? The welfare argument. But we also don't want no social system that supports individuals to do better. We want we don't want individuals where there's self expression and agency, fucks the environment and everybody else and employs slave labor and whatever. So can we make it to where individuals are creating holes that are better for conditioning other individuals? Can we make it to where we have holes that are conditioning increased agency and sovereignty? Right? That would be the synthesis. So the thing that I'm coming to here is if people have that as a frame and sometimes it's not just thesis, Nantis thesis, it's like eight different views, right? Can I steelman each view? This is not just can I take the perspective, but am I seeking them? Am I actively trying to inhabit other people's perspective? Then can I really try to essentialize it and argue the best points of it, both the sense making about reality and the values? Why these values actually matter? Then just like I want to seek those perspectives, then I want to seek, is there a higher order set of understandings that could fulfill the values of and synthesize the sense making of all of them simultaneously? Maybe I won't get it, but I want to be seeking it and I want to be seeking progressively better ones. So this is perspective seeking, driving perspective taking and then seeking synthesis. I think that one cognitive disposition might be the most helpful thing.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Would you put a title of dialectic synthesis on that process? Because that seems to be such a part, so like this rigorous empathy, like it's not just empathy. Empathy with rigor, like you really want to understand and embody different worldviews and then try to find a higher order synthesis. ([Time 1:11:14](https://share.snipd.com/snip/fc5c43d4-170f-4f54-af4d-1112ee0a11b4))