title:: 193 - AMA #31 —  Heart Rate Variability (HRV), Alcohol, Sleep, and More (highlights)
author:: [[The Peter Attia Drive]]
full-title:: "\#193 - AMA \#31 —  Heart Rate Variability (HRV), Alcohol, Sleep, and More"
category:: #podcasts

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- The Autonomic Nervous System
	  
	  Summary:
	  The autonomic nervous system is regulated by two branches. The sympathetic system regulates the fight or flight system, while the para sympathetic system regulates digestion and heart rate. When the sympathetic system is reved up, h r v goes down; when it's not in control, there are more variability between beats.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Possibly, as i alluded to above, the heart even when your heart rate is not changing, and if you're at rest, which is when we measure h ar v. So we don't really measure h r v when you're out and about, moving around, because just the movement itself that you're undergoing is going to change your heart rate. So if i stand from my desk and go and walk over to the kitchen and do something, well, that's going to increase my heart rate just because i stood up. And if i'm exercising, i wo see my heart rate is changing quite a bit. So this is really something that we care about when you're at rest. But as i said, there is variability between those beats. And it turns out that that variability is heavily influenced by which of the autonomic nervous systems is most dominant. So this probably warrants a slight tour. So we have broadly, broadly speaking, two nervous systems. We have one that is under our control and one that is not under our control. And that's a very good thing. If you want to reach for and grab a pencil or walk, obviously that requires voluntary control. You want to be in control of those nerves firing and making muscles do their thing. You certainly don't want to have to be thinking and consciously making things happen that need to happen constantly. You certainly wouldn't want to have to think about breathing. You certainly wouldn't want to have to think about your heart beating. You certainly woudn't want to have to think about digesting food. You certainly wouldn't want to have to think about a lot of things that take place beneath the surface. So all of those things are regulated by this thing called the autonomic nervous system. We further divide this autonotic nervous system into two branches. One is called the sympathetic system, and the other is called the para sympathetic system. The para sympathetic system, the way we would always learn to remember this in medical school was this was the rest and digest system. So this is the down regulating system. It conserves energy. It aid s in digestion. It slows heart rate. Our favorite little fact was it was responsible for erections, but not ejaculation. Ejaculation somehow came from the sympathetic system. So the sympathetic system, of course, is the fight or flight system. So it's making energy more available. Its dilating the pupils, right? Its getting you ready to see as much information as possible. Its slowing digestion, and paristalsis meaning its. It's slowing down anything that's not essential. And it's increasing heart rate. Let's just thnk about what this looks like from a practical standpoint. If you're laying in bed and you hear a loud bang in your house, you have no idea if it's an intruder or if a picture fell off the wall, but you don't even have to worry about your brain isn't going to even force you to make that decision. It's goingtomake the decision for you, which is, this is a threat. And so your heart rate's going to shoot up, your pupils will violate. Any amount of digestive energy going on right now will cease, and your liveris going to start cranking out glucose and making you available for fir flit. Ok. So what is this to do with ach ar v? It turns out, when the sympathetic system is reved up, h r v goes down, and when the para sympathetic system is in control, h r v goes up. I think it's easy to think about this right. As the heart rate speeds up, which is what's happening under sympathetic tone, there is less variability between the beats. When the heart rate slows down, when the body is relaxing, there's more variability between beats.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Ti, don't if that's intuitive or not. I was thinking about that. If you have, over the course of a minute, and your beats per minute is, say, you're, i don't know, lance armstrong when he's at the eight of his powers.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I don't eve know what that isro, 30 beats per minute. O, 30.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  And then you've got somebody else who has a hundred beats per minute. Just the r r intervals, whatever you callt there's just less time between them. Intuitively, i would think there would be less room for variation between each beat. That makes sense? Yes. ([Time 0:06:22](https://share.snipd.com/snip/d842ef54-c2cb-4623-858c-fc03afff7323))