title:: 2 —  Barry Sternlicht – Masterclass in Real Estate in a Post-Covid World, EP.216 (highlights)
author:: [[Capital Allocators – Inside the Institutional Investment Industry]]
full-title:: "\#2 —  Barry Sternlicht – Masterclass in Real Estate in a Post-Covid World, EP.216"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/866a9c24-de56-4de7-ab6b-dd0111f1a312

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Apartments Are Doing Well
	  
	  Summary:
	  We as the nation, i think we talked o forty reachs. actually didn't have a great covet because you were not to kick people who weren't paying rent out of your buildings. And unlike some of the political nonsense around this, some these people had jobs. They just found out their neighbor wasn't paying and so they don't have to pay. So there's ol so a situation where people aren't paying rent, collecting the excess on employment, collecting their stimulus checks, and not working. Why bother when you can work from home or not work at all, and earn more money than you do when you are working? The government has to figure that out. But in general
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Apartments actually didn't have a great covet because you were not to kick people who weren't paying rent out of your buildings. And unlike some of the political nonsense around this, some these people had jobs. They just found out their neighbor wasn't paying and so they don't have to pay. We as the nation, i think we talked o forty reachs when we, again, we were like the second largest reed, but we weren't public. We all decided not to raise rents durin covet, even though we could, and even though single family home rent rents were going up five to ten %. So now we're all playing catch up, which is little to what you're seeing, that the rents are going up and catching up for what the period of time we couldn't push rents. And now finally, the government restricted or lifted the noeviction policies, although some of the cities, again, in the blue states, are putting them back in, which, again, i think is over kill. We have hardship cases for people if they lose their job. But as you know, there's nine and a half million jobs open in the united states. So there's ol so a situation where people aren't paying rent, collecting the excess on employment, collecting their stimulus checks, and not working, ecause why bother when you can work from home or not work at all, and earn more money than you do when you are working? So the government has to figure that out. But in general, apartments are doing well everywhere. And now they're falling the housing market, which is, you told me that housing prices would explode during the pandemic, i would have probably laughed. But what happened was, unlike the o seven, o eight crash, consumers, pocket books were rich and intrust rates were zero. So the stock market rose. Home prices hav risen. Savings rates rose. Expenses dropped. People weren't travelling, they weren't doing that. They weren't commuting. They weren't doing anything they used to do. And they've got of trillion dollar gants from the government. ([Time 0:27:50](https://share.snipd.com/snip/812a982e-31a1-48d6-95a1-4f83a3c22f7d))