title:: 234 Sam Walton —  Made in America (highlights)
author:: [[Founders]]
full-title:: "\#234 Sam Walton —  Made in America"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/5f2dd434-2ea1-4110-bcb9-5348946a1dff

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Dec 31st, 2022]]
	- Do Things That Other People Are Not Doing
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Sam Walton advises learning the rules first, so that you can break them later., * Sam Walton was not always great at accounting, so he broke the rules by doing it according to their book., * Sam Walton started experimenting early on in his career, which is how he became successful.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  She says Sam was always over there checking on John always looking at his prices looking at his displays looking at what he was going on. He was always looking for a way to do a better job. So then he gets into the point that he's inside of a franchise system which is very common at this time. And that he's just like you could tell this is not going to be a long term solution for somebody like Sam Walton. So his advice I think would be learn the rules first so that you can break them later. He talks about his he's like I'm a maverick. I love mavericks. Study the rules and then break them. So he says I wasn't all that great at accounting in college so I just did it according to their book. In fact I used their accounting system long after I had started breaking the rules on everything else. At the very beginning I went along and ran my store by their book because I really didn't know any better but it didn't take long for me to start experimenting and that's just the way I am and always have been. And so part of the rules he breaks is that you're supposed to buy the majority of your stuff you're selling in the store from corporate office. But he's like I'm buying it from you guys but I can go out and find all these little small suppliers and I'm getting way better deals and so they started getting pissed off at them. So he says that was the sort of a lot of these practice of the practices and philosophies that still prevail at Walmart today. I was always looking for offbeat suppliers or sources. I started driving over to Tennessee to some fellows I found who could give me special buys at prices way below what Ben Franklin was charging me. I've got to tell you this drove the Ben Franklin folks crazy. And so he's going to wind up being the most profitable Ben Franklin franchisee right and really what I was thinking of as I read this this part of the book is something I learned after. I did not study Charlie Munger. I did not know much about Charlie Munger the first time I read this book when this was just episode number six. But now something that and this is not just Charlie. There's a bunch of other people that say this but really if you think about what he's doing it's like okay everybody else in the system all my peers maybe future competitors they're all just just running this company's playbook they're doing exactly what they're told to do. I'm out here it's like trying to find any kind of advantage I can get. And so Charlie Munger explains this point in the most sink manner possible. He says do things that other people are not doing. Do things that other people are not doing. That's exactly what he's like I'm the only Ben Franklin franchisee that's driving over to Tennessee to try to find a supplier that's not on the approval list that's not coming from Ben Franklin but yet has better deals. And therefore if I can buy at a lower cost I can then lower my prices and get more customers. And so one of these deals is the fact that he buys women's underwear and this is this this is happening like a decade like I said a decade and a half before Walmart's even a thing. But he says right here he's like oh sir I'll never forget one of the best items I ever had and an and an early lesson I learned in pricing. It first got me thinking in the direction of what eventually became the foundation of Walmart's philosophy. If you're interested in how Walmart did it this is one story you've got to sit up and pay close attention to. So they're selling ladies underwear for two dollars a dozen. We've been buying similar panties from Ben Franklin's for two fifty a dozen and then we would sell them for three three pair for a dollar. So he's like okay well I can buy them now 50 percent or excuse me 50 cents cheaper. So instead of instead of selling three for a dollar I can sell four for a dollar and it would make a great promotion for our store. And so this is exactly what he's he's going to do it one more later. He says here's a simple lesson we learned. While others were learning at the same time and which eventually changed the way retailers sell and customers buy all across America. I find out that I found out that by pricing it at a dollar I could sell three times more than by pricing it at a dollar twenty. I might make only half the profit per item but because I was selling three times as many the overall profit was much greater. Simple enough. But this is really the essence of discounting. By cutting your price you can boost your sales to a point where you can earn far more at the cheaper price than you would have by selling the item at the higher price. In retailer language you can lower your markup but earn more because of the increased volume. So that's the central idea of Walmart. The central idea that he uses to build Walmart. ([Time 0:29:49](https://share.snipd.com/snip/77cc836d-e454-44d0-b75b-b83b722ae080))