title:: 275 Paul Graham's Essays (highlights)
author:: [[Founders]]
full-title:: "\#275 Paul Graham's Essays"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/23a0cdd9-c9c5-45be-b786-5054b0da0254

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- Do What You Love
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Doing what you love doesn't mean doing what you would like to do most this second., * To be happy, you have to be doing something you not only enjoy, but admire.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  He calls them ultra competitive, ultra hardworking nut cases. They go so fast, and they think about the company they're building as a work of art. So if you're building a company or your venture capitalist, or you work in public equities or private equity, and you want to see what TIGUS platform can do, the best thing to do is to go to tigus.com and start a free trial. That's T E G U S dot com. How to do what you love to do something well, you have to like it. That idea is not exactly novel. We've got it down to just forwards, do what you love. But it's not enough just to tell people that doing what you love is complicated. When I was a kid, it seemed as if work and fun were opposites by definition. Life had two states, some of the time adults were making you do things, and that was called work. The rest of the time you could do what you wanted, and that was called playing. Work was pretty much defined as not fun, and it did not seem to be an accident. School, it was implied, was tedious because it was preparation for grown up work. If we make kids work on dull stuff, it might be wise to tell them that tediousness is not the defining quality of work, and indeed that the reason they have to work on dull stuff now is so that they can work on more interesting stuff later. Once when I was about nine or ten, my father told me that I could be whatever I wanted when I grew up, so long as I enjoyed it. I didn't think he meant work could literally be fun, fun like playing. It took me years to grasp that. It was not until I was in college that the idea of work finally broke free from the idea of making a living. Then the important question became not how to make money, but what to work on. The definition of work was now to make some original contribution to the world, and in the process, not to starve. How much are you supposed to like what you do? Unless you know that, you don't know when to stop searching, and if, like most people, you underestimate it, you tend to stop searching too early. You'll end up doing something chosen for you by your parents, or the desire to make money, or prestige, or sheer inertia. Here is an upper bound. Do what you love doesn't mean, do what you would like to do most this second. Even Einstein probably had moments when he wanted to have a cup of coffee, but told himself he ought to finish what he was working on first. It used to perplex me when I read about people who liked what they did so much that there was nothing they'd rather do. There didn't seem to be any sort of work that I like that much. If I had a choice of A, spending the next hour working on something, or B, be teleported to Rome and spend the next hour wondering about, was there any sort of work I'd prefer? Honestly, no. But the fact is, almost anyone would rather, at any given moment, float about in the Caribbean, or have sex, or eat some delicious food, then work on hard problems. Doing what you love doesn't mean, do what makes you happiest this second, but what will make you happiest over some longer period. Unproductive pleasures pail eventually. After a while, you get tired of lying on the beach. If you want to stay happy, you have to do something. As a lower bound, you have to like your work more than any unproductive pleasure. You have to like what you do enough that the concept of quote unquote spare time seems mistaken, which is not to say that you have to spend all your time working. You can only work so much before you get tired and start to screw up. Then you want to do something else, even something mindless, but you don't regard this time as the prize and the time you spend working as the pain you endure to earn it. I put the lower bound there for practical reasons. If your work is not your favorite thing to do, you'll have terrible problems with procrastination. You will have to force yourself to work, and when you resort to that, the results are distinctly inferior. To be happy, I think you have to be doing something you not only enjoy, but admire. You have to be able to say at the end, wow, that's pretty cool. ([Time 0:03:38](https://share.snipd.com/snip/90d043c8-c5fd-489a-be7c-93a288e4353a))