title:: 286 Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger Speaking Directly to You (highlights)
author:: [[Founders]]
full-title:: "\#286 Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger Speaking Directly to You"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/a8c97bcb-15c5-428b-a3d7-87b1280d4531

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 19th, 2023]]
	- Learning Is Not Memorizing Information
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Humans are not able to learn from the experiences of other people., * Bull markets are like sex., * They feel best just before they end., * Berkshire Hathaway uses simplicity to acquire new businesses.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  And you read it again. And you really think about what the hell he's talking about. And I was like, okay, that's actually really interesting. And I don't expect to win you over to our way of thinking. We've observed enough human behavior to know the futility of that. But we do want you to be aware of our personal calculus, what I wrote to myself in this click to me. And the point for you and I to spend all this time reading, listening to educational podcasts, if it doesn't change what we do. And if it doesn't change what we do, we didn't actually learn it. He's telling you, we've seen enough human behavior. You're not going to actually do anything with this information that we're giving you very few people. He's obviously some people were. And so that's what they talk about, like most people. They don't say all people, but they're saying most people cannot learn from the experiences of other people. They're saying the exact same thing here. We could tell you not to do this. A lot of people are going to do it. The smart ones, the ones that are able to learn from other people's behavior are going to have a massive advantage because they know that learning is not memorizing information. Learning is changing your behavior. That's like, I love that whatever clicked right there, it's super important for me. And hopefully for you as well. It's not memorizing information. Did the book that I read, the podcast of this do, did it change my behavior? Did it actually have an effect in the real world? Okay. So then they go into this irrational behavior that you see in bull markets. The sheep story that he told earlier is a good indication of that. And he's got funny ways. Buffett's got a funny way of reminding you about this. When you should feel that you're in danger because it says the problem is it looks so easy. So that's what attracts you to it. And so he says, but remember the late Barton Briggs observation, a bull market is like sex. It feels best just before it ends. And so Munger says, how do you take advantage of that? If you stay rational yourself, this stupidity of the world helps you. Wall Street never changes. The pockets change. The suckers change. The stock change. But Wall Street never changes because human nature never changes. Then it goes back to this idea of they don't have a master plan. They're opportunity driven. That's a great way. It's like a great use of language by them really gets this idea into our brains. We don't have a master theory of capital allocation or student asset allocation. We simply we're simply opportunity driven individual opportunity driven. Our acquisition technique at Berkshire is simplicity itself. We answer the phone. ([Time 0:55:02](https://share.snipd.com/snip/964b8f40-625c-43c9-b908-05612b62da5c))