title:: 296. Neuroscience Meets Psychology | Dr.  Andrew Huberman (highlights)
author:: [[The Jordan B. Peterson Podcast]]
full-title:: "296. Neuroscience Meets Psychology | Dr.  Andrew Huberman"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/b4c2d30e-b0ea-4642-8e11-4cc7af5f33f8

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 4th, 2023]]
	- Does That Mean That You Believe What You're Doing Is Important?
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Beliefs about tasks and goals can lead to neurochemical changes that facilitate learning., * The prefrontal cortex is a rulesetting machine that can adopt new rules for reward release in the brain.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  So does that mean that if you believe when you are at the outset of a task that you're doing something important, so you're approaching a valued goal and you have a lot of anticipation as a consequence of that, does that mean that you put yourself in a neurochemical state that facilitates learning? Absolutely. Without question. So if you believe what you're doing is important, if you truly believe that because it's related to an important goal and it's a pathway forward, then that's going to transform into a manifestation of neuroplasticity.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Absolutely. And every time I hear about the sort of woo statements about, you know, I don't want to offend anyone here, but sure, I'll just say, you hear about the secret or manifesting or intention, all of that is really- Yeah. It's capturing a fundamental principle of the way that our neurology works, which is that the prefrontal cortex as a rule setting, but flexible rule setting machine that taps into the dopamine system can absolutely adopt new rules for reward release in the brain. Again, there's basically only one reward system. There's also serotonin system, as you know, but the dopamine system is the major currency of reward, so much so that for instance, everyone knows that food is rewarding. We anticipate food, we eat a delicious steak or something and we feel rewarded. ([Time 1:09:00](https://share.snipd.com/snip/bdfa60cf-f7f4-483b-b8c6-c114f472aa50))