title:: 299 – Demis Hassabis —  DeepMind (highlights)
author:: [[Lex Fridman Podcast]]
full-title:: "\#299 – Demis Hassabis —  DeepMind"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/7c2beaff-1735-41e9-9f01-e1ffb4a641a6

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- Alphafold and the Future of Bioinformatics
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Alpha fold is a powerful tool for understanding the structure and function of proteins, but it is just the beginning., * There are many potential applications for alpha fold, including drug discovery and fundamental research., * Alpha fold was open sourced in order to accelerate drug discovery and fundamental research.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  We return to the big ambitious dream of Alpha fold that maybe the early steps on a very long journey in biology. Do you think the same kind of approach can use to predict the structure and function of more complex biological systems. So multi protein interaction. And then, I mean, you can go out from there. Just simulating bigger and bigger systems that eventually simulate something like the human brain. Or the human body, just the big mush, the mess of the beautiful, resilient mess of biology. Do you see that as a long term vision. I do.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  And I think, you know, if you think about what are the things, top things I wanted to apply AI to once we had powerful enough systems biology and curing diseases and understanding biology was right up there, you know, top of my list. That's one of the reasons I personally pushed that myself and with Alpha fold. But I think Alpha fold. Amazing as it is, is just the beginning. And, and, and I hope it's evidence of what could be done with computational methods. So, you know, Alpha fold solve this, this huge problem of the structure proteins, but biology is dynamic. So really what I imagine from here and we're working on all these things now is protein protein interaction, protein, lichen binding, so reacting with molecules. Then you want to get build up to pathways and then punch eventually a virtual cell. That's my dream. Maybe in the next 10 years. And I've been talking actually to a lot of biologists, friends of mine, Paul Nurse, who runs the Quick Institute, amazing biologist, never prize winning biologist. We've been discussing for 20 years now, virtual cells. Could you build a virtual simulation of a cell? And if you could, that would be incredible for biology and disease discovery because you could do loads of experiments on the virtual cell, and then only at the last stage, validate it in the next step. So you could, you know, in terms of the search space of discovering new drugs, you know, takes 10 years roughly to go from, to go from, you know, identifying a target to having a drug candidate. Maybe that could be shortened to, you know, by an order of magnitude with if you could do most of that, that, that work in silico. And in order to get to a virtual cell, we have to build up understanding of different parts of biology and the interactions. And so we, you know, we, every, every few years we talk about this with, I talked about this with Paul. And then finally, last year after Alpha Fold, I said, now's the time we can finally go for it. And, and Alpha Fold is the first proof point that this might be possible. And he's very excited and we have some collaborations with his, with his lab, and they're just across the road, actually from us. So it's a wonderful being here in Kings Cross with the quick Institute across the road. And, and I think the next steps, you know, I think there's going to be some amazing advances in biology built on top of things like Alpha Fold. We're already seeing that with the community doing that after we've opened source to release it. And, you know, I often say that I think if you think of mathematics is the perfect description language for physics. I think AI might be end up being the perfect description language for biology because biology so messy, it's so emergent, so dynamic and complex. I think I find it very hard to believe we'll ever get to something as elegant as Newton's laws of motions to describe a cell. Right, it's just too complicated.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  So I think AI is the right tool for that. You have to, you have to start at the basic building blocks and use AI to run the simulation for all those building blocks. So have a very strong way to do prediction of what given these building blocks, what kind of biology, how the function and the evolution of that biological system. It's almost like a cellular automata, you have to run it, you can't analyze it from a high level, you have to take the basic ingredients, figure out the rules and let it run. But in this case, the rules are very difficult to figure out. Yes, exactly.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  You have to learn them. That's exactly it. So the biology is too complicated to figure out the rules. It's too emergent, too dynamic, say, compared to a physics system like the motion of a planet. Right. And so you have to learn the rules. And that's exactly the type of systems that we're building.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  So you mentioned you've open sourced alpha fold and even the data involved to me personally also really happy and a big thank you for open sourcing, the physical simulation engine that's often used for robotics research and so on. So I think that's a pretty gangster move. So what's the, what's, I mean, this very few companies or people do that kind of thing. What's the philosophy behind that?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  You know, it's a case by case basis. And in both those cases, we felt that was the maximum benefit to humanity to do that and the scientific community, in one case, the robotics physics community with major co so purchased it. We purchased it for open to hope. Yes, we published it for the express principle to open source it. So, so, you know, people appreciate that. It's great to hear that you do. And then the second thing was, and mostly we did it because the person building it is would not able to cope with supporting it anymore because it was, it got too big for him is amazing professor who built it in the first place. So we helped him out with that. And then with alpha folds even bigger, I would say. And I think in that case, we decided that there were so many downstream applications of alpha fold that we couldn't possibly even imagine what they were. So the best way to accelerate drug discovery and also fundamental research would be to give all that data away and the system itself. You know, it's been so gratifying to see what people have done that within just one year, which is a short amount of time in science. And it's been used by over 500,000 researchers have used it. We think that's almost every biologist in the world. I think there's roughly 500,000 biologists in the world, professional biologists have used it to look at their proteins of interest. We see an amazing fundamental research done so a couple of weeks ago, front cover, there was a whole special issue of science, including the front cover, which had the nuclear poor complex on it, which is one of the biggest proteins in the body, the nuclear poor complex is a protein that governs all the nutrients going in and out of your cell nucleus. So they're like little hot gateways that open and close to let things go in and out of your cell nucleus. So they're really important, but they're huge because they're massive doughnut rings shaped things. And they've been looking to try and figure out that structure for decades. And they have lots of experimental data, but it's too low resolution. There's bits missing. And they were able to, like a giant Lego jigsaw puzzle, use alpha fold predictions plus experimental data and combined those two different ways. And combined those two independent sources of information, actually four different groups around the world were able to put it together, the set more or less simultaneously using alpha fold predictions. So that's been amazing to see. And pretty much every farmer company, every ([Time 1:05:16](https://share.snipd.com/snip/6379112a-573a-49bd-aa97-060eaca90dff))