title:: 309 – John Carmack —  Doom, Quake, VR, AGI, Programming, Video Games, and Rockets (highlights)
author:: [[Lex Fridman Podcast]]
full-title:: "\#309 – John Carmack —  Doom, Quake, VR, AGI, Programming, Video Games, and Rockets"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/5c5c5bdd-e04a-4bb9-a8b4-6ebd7da4667f

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- What Makes a Good Programmer?
	  
	  Summary:
	  There's a sight on stock exchange called cod golf, where people compete to write the shortest possible programme for particular task. And it's really interesting to see folks kind of a that are masters of their craft really play with the limits of programming languages. So given that, given that you are once again one of the greatest programmes ever, what do you think makes a good programmer? i just gave a long prant slash lecture at meta to the t p m organization. Everything that we're doing really should flow from usor value, you know, all the good things that we're Doing. It's like we're not technical people. We shouldn't be taking pride just in the specific thing
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  There's a site on stack exchange called code golf where people compete to write the shortest possible program for particular task in all the different kinds of languages. And it's really interesting to see folks kind of their masters of their craft really play with the limits of programming languages. It's really beautiful to see. And across all the different programming languages, you get to see some of these weird programming languages and mainstream ones, different between Python two and three, you get to see the difference between C and C++ and Java, and you get to see JavaScript, all of that. And it's kind of inspiring to see how much depth of possibility there is within programming languages that code golf kind of tasks reveal. Most of us, if you do any kind of programming, you kind of do boring kind of very vanilla type of code. That's the way to build large systems, but it's nice to see that the possibility of creative genius is still within those languages. It's a laden with those languages. So given that, given that you are once again one of the greatest programmers ever, what do you think makes a good programmer? Maybe a good modern programmer.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  So I just gave a long rant slash lecture at meta to the TPM organization. And my biggest point was everything that we're doing really should flow from user value, you know, all the good things that we're doing. It's like we're, we're not technical people. It's like, you shouldn't be taking pride just in the specific thing like code golf is the sort of thing. It's a fun puzzle game, but that really should not be a major motivator for you. It's like we're ([Time 0:39:43](https://share.snipd.com/snip/66fbc983-58ef-48a0-80d8-e4ebe3aa2579))
	- Code Golf is a Fun Puzzle Game, But That Really Shouldn't Be A Major Motivator For You
	  
	  Summary:
	  i just gave a long prant slash lecture at meta to the t p m organization. i fundamentally do think that's how you make the world a better place. If you have given more value to people than it took you and your team to create, then the world's abetter place.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  So I just gave a long rant slash lecture at meta to the TPM organization. And my biggest point was everything that we're doing really should flow from user value, you know, all the good things that we're doing. It's like we're, we're not technical people. It's like, you shouldn't be taking pride just in the specific thing like code golf is the sort of thing. It's a fun puzzle game, but that really should not be a major motivator for you. It's like we're solving problems for people or we're providing entertainment to people. We're doing something of value to people that's displacing something else in their life. So we want to be providing a net value over what they could be doing. But instead they're choosing to use our products. And that's where, I mean, it sounds trider corny, but I fundamentally do think that's how you make the world a better place. If you have given more value to people than it took you and your team to create, then the world's a better place. People ([Time 0:41:03](https://share.snipd.com/snip/6a16965a-5ff4-477b-8346-7858012886ab))
	- You're at Your Best When You've Got a Leader That's At Their Limit
	  
	  Summary:
	  i tells people, pay attention to them. Don't invent fictional users. And i companies like meta have, you know, they understand the offs where you can have a company like spacex or o apple in the steve jobs era. They burn through a lot of employees that have horror stories to tell about working there afterwards. My position is that you're at your best when you've got a leader that is at their limit of what they can kind of comprehend of everything below them.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  I tell people, pay attention to them. Don't invent fictional users don't, you know, make an Alice Bob Charlie that fits whatever matrix of tendencies that you want to break the market down to because it's a mistake to think about imaginary users when you've got real users that you could be working with. But you know, on the other hand, there is, there is value to having a kind of wholeness of vision for a product and I, companies like meta have, you know, they understand the trade offs where you can have a company like SpaceX or you know Apple and the Steve Jobs era, where you have a very powerful leading personality that I know that can micromanage at a very low level and can say it's like no that handle needs to be different or that that icon needs to change the tent there. And they clearly get a lot of value out of it they also burn through a lot of employees that have horror stories to tell about working there afterwards. And so the third position is that you're at your best when you've got a leader that is at their limit of what they can kind of comprehend of everything below them, and they can have an informed opinion about everything that's going on. And you take somebody it's you've got to believe that somebody that has 3040 ([Time 0:47:36](https://share.snipd.com/snip/7efc236f-7113-47e6-9c2c-1964e474ee42))
	- The Mythical Work Life Balance
	  
	  Summary:
	  "i've literally never felt burnt out. And i know there's lots of brilliant, smart people that do world leading work that get burned out," she says. "So much of thatd so much of the ability to actually work hard is the ability to have multiple things to choose from and to use your time on the most appropriate thing"
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Been able to arrive at any wisdom on this part in your years of life so I do think that there's a wide range of people where different people have different needs it's not a one size fits all I am certainly what works for me I can tell enough that I'm different than a typical average person in the way things impact me the you know the things that I want to do my goals are different and sort of the levers to impact things are different where I have literally never felt burnout and I know there's lots of brilliant smart people that do world leading work that get burned out and it's never hit me I'm you know I've never been at a point where I'm like I'm I just don't care about this I don't want to do this anymore but I've always had the flexibility To work on lots of interesting things you know I can always just turn my gaze to something else and have a great time working on that and so much of that and so much of the ability to actually work hard is the ability to have multiple things to choose from and to use use your time on the most appropriate thing like there are there are time periods where I am it's the best time for me to read a new research paper that I need to really be thinking you know hard about it then there's a time that maybe I should just scan and organize my old notes because my you know I'm just not on top of things then there's the time that all right let's go you know bang out a few hundred lines of code for something so switching between them has been Real valuable so you always have kind of join your heart for all the things you're doing and that that is the kind of work life balance as a first sort of step yeah I do I do I do I am happy yeah I mean that's like I a lot of people would say that often I look like kind of a grim person you know with just sitting there with a neutral expression or even like knitted brows and a frown on my face as I'm staring at something that's what happens looks like for you it's it's kind ([Time 0:59:20](https://share.snipd.com/snip/33c3bb31-8bad-46c7-9e28-e3d8df1620bd))
	- Debuggers Aren't Working.
	  
	  Summary:
	  "It still boggles my mind how i how hostile to debuggers. I for the systems, and a lot of this comes from a sort of linnox bias on a lot of things," he says. "A de bugger is how you get a view into a system that's too complicated to understand." 'You can always get things done, even if you're working with stone knives and, you know, in bear skins'
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Kind of migrated cultures where early on through all of game dev there was sort of one culture there which was really quite distinct from the more the Silicon Valley venture you know culture for things it's their different groups and they have pretty different more is in the way they think about things where and I still do think a lot of the big companies can learn can learn things from the hardcore game development side of things where it still boggles my mind how hostile to debuggers and IDEs that so much of them the kind of big money get billions of dollars Silicon Valley venture backed funds are this interesting sorry so you're saying like like big companies at Google matter are hostile to they are not big on debuggers and IDEs like so much of it is like emax BIM for things and we just assume That debuggers don't work most of the time I for the systems and a lot of this comes from a sort of Linux bias on a lot of things where I did come up through the personal computers and then the DOS and then I am you know windows and and it was Borland tools and then Visual Studio and do you appreciate the buggers very much so I mean a debugger is how you get a view into a system that's too complicated to understand anybody that thinks just read the code and think about it. That's an insane statement in the you can't even read all the code on a big system you have to do experiments on the system and doing that by adding log statements recompiling and rerunning it is an incredibly inefficient way of doing it I mean yes you can always get things done even if you're working with stone knives and you ([Time 1:04:59](https://share.snipd.com/snip/4414f822-01f7-4b27-966f-7cab443c7ee9))
	- I've Made a Few Mistakes, But They Will Never Be Made
	  
	  Summary:
	  In my private code, i have asserts everywhere. There's something pleasant to me, pleasurable to me, about the dictatorial rule like this should be true. At this point, too many times i've made mistakes that shouldn't have been made. Therefore, an asert really catches me, a really helps all the time.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Private code I have asserts everywhere yeah just there's something pleasant to me pleasurable to me about sort of the dictatorial rule of like this should be true at this point. In too many times I've made mistakes that shouldn't have been made and I would assume I wouldn't be the kind of person would make that mistake but I keep making that mistake therefore an assert really catches me really helps all the time so my code I would say like 10 to 20% of my private code just for personal use is probably a certain active comments that one of those things that you're they don't they don't make any difference to the program and if ([Time 1:13:35](https://share.snipd.com/snip/a055b086-5ba6-429a-a025-ec23065239af))