title:: 317 —  Steve Jurvetson — The Midas Touch and Mind-Bending Futures (highlights)
author:: [[The Tim Ferriss Show]]
full-title:: "\#317 —  Steve Jurvetson — The Midas Touch and Mind-Bending Futures"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/8ac89e3d-da62-4c8d-a56b-2c45fa7b386f

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- The Greatest Contribution to the World by Steve Jobbs
	  
	  Summary:
	  Antonio a. Apsley and greg i sad were in the henry crant fellowship, prorgrum togther thesben institutes. Antonio: "I feel like there're a lot of distributed quotes" about how innovation is saying no to a thousand things that the i haventepen." The pair recently hosted a sex party at steve jobbs' house which has been reported as having taken place by other people on the internet. In an interview with elon a few weeks ago, Elan said he had faced his most real experience so far this year.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  So i mad catch up more over over a bottle of wine about this. But so we were antonio a. Were in the henry crant fellowship, prorgrum togther thesben institutes. We we've had a chance to spend a lot of time together. Ah, jak grag apsley, greg i sad. Two things come the first is, and i'm sure gong to butcher this, but it's a quote attributed to steve jobbs. I feel like there're a lot of distributed quotes. I'm pretty sure this is accurate. I don't think it's an able lincoln situation on the enternat. But that innovation is saying no to a thousand things that the i haventepen.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  But in any case, the other was e's also, by the way, jobbs was very proud of wand that's what his greatest grace, or greatest contribution to the world is, est invention is greatest thing. You know, nis deen, it was apple, the organization, and it was really the process learning, coming back to s onthing i was starting tie. But earlier he was folkes on physical space design, keeping engineers ner the marketing people, thinking about where the bathrooms art picks ar, so he have to walk by certain areas to get to them. H he was maniacal about architecting the way people communicate, kicking people out if meetings if they're too big. So he had an intuitive sense about team is long before i did. Now, ity people are over a certain way, class on and lovooo. You don't want too many leven people on anything productive. No development team actually fives, the ideal number, five plus minus two. Boards of directors, development teams, creative groups. That's one of the secret admantages of small companies, thathey, have less people, and they get shut done. One it's a big company has hundreds of people and scarotic layers of management that they've lost the small team dynamic.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  I always like to ask about, asked about it with elon a the some of the tougher times, because ore challenges, because it's, it's easy, i think. And i explore this with lots of everybodywho's on the show. I tryd toand ask them about how they how they try to deal with overwhelm, or if they feel scattered, what do they do? And i we talked a little about a little bit about elan. I'd love to ask you, because you recently had an experience that a lot of people have, in the sense that i and many others get their turn as kind of thea, the punching bag, if you're public facing and you're going to run into things. And you had an experience recently that i'd love for you to describe, if you're open to it. And then i have some folt questions just about how you then reacted to it self. Talk of things like that. Smaybeif if i could just leave it.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  So, maybe it's an elephant in the room, but in the last couple of months, i have faced the most real experience of my career, which is, you know, 23 years aventure capital and many before that, all positive press experiences. And then i faced a bizarre, almost autocatalytic, self generating theme that i hosted a sex party with my fiancee, m in silkan valley. And at first i laughed it, this is hilarious. O know, s an x ge on now going ut my whole life with na glasses and braces and what have you. Like the notion my first date was in college, an, like, i really thought that was hilarious at first, then it got alittle more serious and like, wa, this, this is ridiculous. Elm and and really, the thing is, even wore, it came, it derived from a book, then came out in february, where there'sn suc claim that we hosted a sex party. But it's in a chapter about sex parties that other people had, and we just happened to be the only party that has bee any one mentioned by name. And then, i mean, if i tried to put a simplicitic spin on this or try to make sense of it, it looks like people just didn't read the chapter very carefully, and they wad blog posts or other like very sort of non professional postings on line that, oh, my gosh, the sex party was at steve's house. What she'd not only do the book not say that it wasn't true. And by the way, there's a hundred and 50 people that attended this thing that know it's not true, and like t ten of them go publicly on, which is kind of a risky thing to do, sas ot this party, and there was no sex, including lanlmuskes, like, this is irresponsible journalism, or something to that effect. And he condemned the writer like ike. And it's kind of bazarre, because i know this author. I've been on her ina bloomburg television programm many times. She knows my email sh myself one she never called me for a fact check, which i didn't realize in book publishing to day, in what's ostensibly a non fiction categorythat the publishers do no fact checking. That's just a fact now, it's transformed from decades ago, and they leave it up to the writer. And the writer just just didn't even try to see i was true. And more disturbingly, would retweet, even though she never said we had a sex party, she would retweet other people ad so some other publication in europe would say, oh, the orgy rie sit starts to grow, the orgy at her house. And she retreats it really, you know, this isn't true, and i know she knows it isn't true, but she keeps retreating it cause it sells more books. And i know executives, for example, who've been pressured by their p r people to say positive things about the book because of her ongrowing roll as a blomburg reporter. She has this weird conflict of ite when you want to sell books and salacious stories sell, to propagate something that's not true, even if you didn't say it yourself, and then turn around and use your leverage and your bully pulpit on twitter and elsewhere to gain support for your book, ecause, you know, people want to continue working with you ad you're going to be, you're the journalist of record and the tech industry, at one of the biggest news organizations. It's kind of unfair, yes? Whindo, i feel is really horrible. ([Time 1:44:45](https://share.snipd.com/snip/74e14f81-924f-4578-abf7-0bba26e3682c))