title:: 409 —  Brené Brown — Striving Versus Self-Acceptance, Saving Marriages, and More (highlights)
author:: [[The Tim Ferriss Show]]
full-title:: "\#409 —  Brené Brown — Striving Versus Self-Acceptance, Saving Marriages, and More"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/02b59a05-1733-4717-b533-1203f2ec4a7d

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- Self Acceptance - I Don't Need to Change Anything
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* There are two types of self acceptance: self love and self acceptance., * Self love is when you accept everything about yourself, no matter how bad it is., * Self acceptance is when you accept what is happening in the moment, even if it's not perfect.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  But i wan away you say what ou've just said, what ie said, is, i do think there ile types of self acceptance, and that that that term self acceptance could be used to excuse complacency, in the sense that you can say, i am practising self acceptance, which means, everything is great. Everything is as it should be. La, la, la. I don't need to change anything. But then i'l us add one more piece. Thereis there is a self acceptance which says, for instance, as an example, make to write this alout right now. I am nervous and i'm frustrated and i'm angry because a, b and c is happening in my life, and we're doing this podcast, and i'm bald now, and like, in two thousand seven and, oh my god, i mi. It's my head, just a shiny cue ball and camera right now. Blo. And i could accept all those things as true, because they are. Those were my experience. And then for some of them, i could resolve to take steps to improve upon those things, right? So there's a situation i need to fix. Great. Let me go fix it, because that's making me or agitating me in some way. So i think that there are, there's there's a self acceptance, which is a macro, i don't need to change anything. And then there's a self acceptance, which is really just truthfully accepting whatever you're experiencing at the moment as what is happening. I suppose thangs, i don't wan to feel angry. I don't get feel angry and like fighting and fighting and fighting and tugging yourself in multiple directions. So that might sound kind of esoteric, but for me it's been very profound in that you can be forgiving of whatever you are experiencing. In your body, in your psyche, in the moment, while still putting in place steps to improve whatever it is you're hoping to improve. I think it's possible to do both.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I think, i think it's possible to do both too. For sure. I do, because i think, i i live both, and i do. I go back to, like the union belief that the paradox is the only real thing that is has enough tensionto to capture human experience. So i think you can have self love and self acceptance and want to be better in other ways, i think. And in fact, i don't think you can change withot. So here, here, here are the par here are the things i want to unwind. I don't think you can truly change for the better in a lasting, meaningful way unless it is driven by self acceptance. I grew tep, so i think being the shiot out of yourself for performance, which, you know, i work with a lot of sportspeople now, like it works. And if all you have to do is pay some one for one season, or all you do is one game or one whatever, you're ok. But lasting, meaningful change has to be driven by self acceptance. The other thing that is just so shocking to me about complacency and self acceptance is, as i think back, and i would really have to go into the data, but just sitting here, i don't think i have ever come s a single person who, i not a single person that i can think of who was complacent, driven by self acceptance. Like, i don't think, i don't know. I don't know that that is not an aoxy moron. I got to tell you that. Like, self aware complacency doesn't work for me as i constu self aware. No, i i don'to self accepted complacency. ([Time 0:27:27](https://share.snipd.com/snip/1d597d76-2f6f-435e-b8d8-262eef5e4b0a))