title:: 571 - Joyce Benenson - How Do Women Compete for Partners? (highlights)
author:: [[Modern Wisdom]]
full-title:: "\#571 - Joyce Benenson - How Do Women Compete for Partners?"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/42d5484a-7f2e-4ace-b350-db3a95e3d8fc

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Mar 6th, 2023]]
	- The Role of Men in Female Status Seeking
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* There is a huge benefit for a woman to have a husband just in terms of providing support., * In most cases, husbands are not that important to women.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  How do we relate the female status seeking, competitive drives? How does that relate to mate seeking and sort of female mate choice, sexual selection, mate preferences, so on and so forth?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeah, I mean, it's, you know, what's confusing about this is there, if you look across species, obviously, there's so many different mating regimes, right? So if you look in humans, obviously, there is polygyny around the world, but it's a small percentage. Most of it is monogamy. There's a huge benefit for a woman to have a husband just in terms of providing support. Now, in fairness, husbands aren't that important when you're a female kin around. And the female kin probably are in most hunter-gatherer societies. They do a lot more for you than the husband. The husband is more of a community man and kind of gives you a connection to the community.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  I'm not sure how much men are really helpful to women. I really am not. I need to jump in there. I had a conversation with Roy Baumreister and Robin Dunbar this year. And Robin Dunbar taught me about the bodyguard hypothesis, which I basically asked. It seems like women are pretty capable of looking after themselves. In the modern world, we have women outperforming men both in education and employment on average. They're more conscientious in terms of personality. Ancestrally, they had this allo parenting thing going on where they were able to disperse the child re-ring amongst both friends and family. I was like, I'm not, I'm not being stupid here, but what's, what is the point of men? Like, give me, tell me why we're here. And he said, well, you know, warfare and a big game were really sort of the two main reasons of that occurring. And obviously, we've got this whole crisis of masculinity and the feminization of men concerned going on at the moment. But when you realize that warfare has been outsourced to the state in both policing of local laws and in military for international laws, and then in terms of big game hunting, that there's a supermarket down the street. So the two main things that men did have kind of been supplanted by the state and the thing that women do, the child re-ring has not, certainly not as much. So yeah, I am on board with the ongoing question, what is the use of men in like the nicest way possible?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I think it's an excellent point and really important and a big, big concern now for everyone. I think what I feel sad about is I feel men and boys right from early on get along really, really well in groups. And there's a lot of ability to have fights to reconcile, to compete, to try to do as well as each individual can do and to admire that. And so there's a lot of things I try to emphasize that boys and men do right and that can be used. What I think is a shame is that society hasn't come up with more community based ventures for men. And there are so many, I mean, our environment is falling apart. These require huge solutions. Firefighting, who's out there fighting the fires? Obviously, we know it's mostly men. If there's any huge accidents, who's out there? It's men. So Roy's book, I love, is there anything good about men? It's just a terrific book. And you know, I can just recite from that. There are tons of things that men do that women are afraid to do. But I would go farther and say, look, our environment needs trees planted. We need all kinds of solar panels. We need nuclear power, whatever it is that you think is the best solution to what's the climate crisis and to, you know, recycling and all the things that will allow us to continue as a species. We need men to do that because we need those who are not next to the children all the time, who work really well in groups who can coordinate. So if we could only see a war on environmental destruction that needs to be fought by men, and I really, really think all of this is very true. So we're just not defining the problems properly. ([Time 0:30:39](https://share.snipd.com/snip/7d0f6b69-44aa-410c-8bd5-d7ddee46adb1))