title:: 582 —  Mark Zuckerberg on Long-Term Strategy, Business and Parenting Principles, Personal Energy Management, Building the Metaverse, Seeking Awe, the Role of Religion, Solving Deep Technical Challeng...
author:: [[The Tim Ferriss Show]]
full-title:: "\#582 —  Mark Zuckerberg on Long-Term Strategy, Business and Parenting Principles, Personal Energy Management, Building the Metaverse, Seeking Awe, the Role of Religion, Solving Deep Technical Challenges (e.g., AR), and More"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/8d4a381f-bd55-43a2-8fc6-5295cea59e9e

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- How Do You Manage Long Term Bets?
	  
	  Summary:
	  Sin: People are psychologically much more interested and capable of focusing on a long term outcome when they feel secure in the near term. But good leadership, as you try to get people excited about where you're going, you obviously you can't just ignore thete short term. Sin: One of thething s that i've sort of personally learned over the last 18 years of running the company, is like, feeling like you weren't understood, kind of feels bad.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Let's talk about long term planning in long term bets for a second. I find you particularly interesting in this respect, because you're a founder, c o with a lot of founder driven control. You're, youre, in a sense, you one of the last of a generation, and you can make long term bets. And i know, when we were chatting, i guess last week a bit, you mentioned having a fift cripn fo rongo, like a 15 year road map for metaverse, right? And what i'd love to ask you is, how you manage, say, the short term, or the intermediate term within the company with employees, right? Because if you look at, say, instigram, what's a the bets paid off, but at the time, there's a lot of scrutiny et o the media sould have had a field day. And by and large, were wrong. But i'm wondering, since those types of bets are not necessarily obvious in the moment everyone involved, how do you think about managing internally when you are making these long term bets?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  It's hard, and i don't think there's just one way to do it. People are psychologically much more interested and capable of focusing on a long term outcome when they feel secure in the near term. So when there's a lot of near term thrash, or prospects don't look good, or the market is down over all, younow, even if that's not specific to your company, even if it's a ind of broader thing, i think that that that definitely strains people's time horizons. But good leadership, as you try to get people excited about where you're going, you obviously you can't just ignore thete short term. There's a lot of stuff that we need to get done there. And at this point, yeu now ites a pretty big company. Sin, as one of ourur board members says, we need to be a to walk and chew gum at the same time. Which is probably a simplification. But one of thething s that i've sort of personally learned over the last 18 years of running the the company, is like, i remember when i was getting started, feeling like you weren't understood, kind of feels bad. I think that theres, there's a normal human impulse, which is to be understood. I thik that's, that's partially why people want to express themselves and why communication is so important. People, it some level, have this intrinsic desire to be kind of understood and belong and feel like there and to belong wtih the people around them. And obviously, being in a state where you your kind of somethingtha you're trying to do is is kind of fundamentally misunderstood, or that people don't believe in, it can be tough. But after going through a bunch these cycles, i actually feel like i've trained myself to kind of see it the opposite way, which is, if i'm doing something that feels too well understood for too long, then i feel like i'm just being complaisant. So after having gone through a bunch of these different cycles, whether it's, you know, a lot of things that are just not controversial to day, but at the time, people thought we're crazy taking the the service, initially from being a college webside to not buying instogram or what's at, which were billions of dollars for the acquisitions. But like, at the time, people were, what, ye, i remember, i think it was am, it was john stewartor colbert, but they did a segment that was making fun of the instagram acquisition. That was, what? Si, you bought instegrm for a billion dollars of money? Are you kidding? So i think some of these things, i's like you just, you cind of go through a bunch, it is, and yo, you the conviction to kind of push back on the inthe world a little bit and say, ok, no, we're going to get through this and and come out in 18 months, 24 months, with something that we believe in. And and after that happens a few times, you kind of understand that that could happen. Most people still will get more of these bets wrong than right. So it's not like, you, no, i think it's obviously very important to not get too overconfident with this, but, but at this point, i kind of feel like if people ly feel like they understand what we are as a company and what we're doing, then i'm not pushing it hard enough. And that actually now i'm at the point where, like, that feels bad to me. So i kind of ike want to push us into the zone, which is, ok, let's kind of constantly be doing something that can be doubted. Because if we're not, then what are we doing? We have this huge opportunity to do exciting things, help invent things and create things for the world. And if it's obvious to everyone that we're gongto be able to do each of the things that we're working on, then i don't feel lik were we're going o making the most of what we need to do. So i'm not sure that that that answers the original question around internally, how do you get people through it? But i actually think a lot of this, how do you get an organization of a hundred thousand people through something, is about managing your own psychology and about managing your team psychology, for sure. You know, one of the things that i've always found is you can pretty much, i think, get an organization through, in a team, through almost any challenge, as long as you can maintain good cohesion. So it's the external stuff that doesn't bother meht much. An it's, you know, people can criticize us a i, you know, the're people i respect. I care a lot about that and want to make sure we do better. But it doesn't make me not sleep at night when our stock price goes down. That doesn't make me not sleep at night when there's a new competitor. That doesn't make me not sleep night. If there's an issue on my team and there isn't good cohesion, then i'm not sleeping well, until i resolve that. It goes back to, you know, the very first thing we are talking about with fencing, its its intellectual and your managing your energy. I think like in order to get through these things and build big, long term things, you canta just need to, i think you need to take care of yourself, and you need to take care of your cor team. And basically, in doing so, you can lead a pretty large organization through some pretty difficult times to do some pretty awesome stuff. But i think that it's intellectual, its energy, and it's about kind of training yourself to be uncomfortable sto let's talk about he training yourself to be uncomfortable, or to become more comfortable with discomfort. ([Time 0:17:26](https://share.snipd.com/snip/c64449b2-9b33-48a2-b011-60f9f7de5193))