title:: 622 —  a Rare in-Person Random Show With Kevin Rose — VR Workouts, I Bonds, Excellent Movies, Recent Books, Lessons From Amy Tan, How to Shape Your Mind, and More (highlights)
author:: [[The Tim Ferriss Show]]
full-title:: "\#622 —  a Rare in-Person Random Show With Kevin Rose — VR Workouts, I Bonds, Excellent Movies, Recent Books, Lessons From Amy Tan, How to Shape Your Mind, and More"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/c0691901-1288-4fb9-81ca-77abd6e4a17c

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- The Plasticity of Meditation
	  
	  Summary:
	  "i want to open as many doors as possible during this lifetime," Sande says. He's doing his first seven day silent retreat at a mountain cloud zen center, which i'm very excited about. A lot of the big unlocks that happen with meditation are not just through 50 minutes a day, he says. "You'll eventually get to some amazing state of consciousness."
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Going to say is that I want to open as many doors as possible during this lifetime. Why not, you know? Okay. All right. It's not to say I'm going to go and stick to one door and be down that path for the next six months, but why not just try it? Like I'm going to be dead in 40 years. It's true. Despite all the people skipping lunch and dinner. In hopes of peeking out an extra three years. So you were going to segue opening doors. Yeah. So and the problem, Tim, I have with a lot of these compounds is that I feel like they're very prescriptive. And I worry that you get these changes. Don't get me wrong. And granted, I don't have as much data as you do on this on this front. But for me, I felt this like nice relief for like a month, you know, and then it kind of creeps back in. To the normal steady state of the things, right? And so the plasticity, I wonder, is it like something that you have to do multiple times and like how many times and then then on the worst case of this, you hear about these people that they just don't ever come back and they're the lifelong journeyers that have these psychonauts that and you're like, are you killing more brain cells? Are you really reworking the plastic there? You're just kind of like, you know, yeah, or you took that plate on just like just threw it down a sand dune. So for me, I've been, you know, we've mentioned this many times on the show is like, I love the meditation side of things. I think of it as a kind of a trying to reach the same peak, but in a more kind of steady state, like every day, micro dose way that eventually over a decade or longer of practice, you'll eventually get to some amazing state of consciousness. I'm obviously not there yet, but I'm doing my first seven day silent retreat at Mountain Cloud Zen Center, which I'm very excited to. That's Henry's place. Henry's place. Yeah. Nice. Fantastic teacher. So why do this retreat? What are you hoping to gain from it? Well, if you read a lot of the Zen books that are out there, a lot of the, well, there'd be three pillars of Zen or Zen the authentic gate, a lot of the big unlocks that happen with meditation are not just through 50 minutes a day, which Zen is typically 25 minutes of seated meditation, five minutes of walking, and then another 25 minutes of seated. It actually happens at these sessions of these like proper retreats, you know, where you're doing days meditating and you really go deep. It allows your mind to really calm and you've done this. You've been there. So I just want to go. I want to see where, what's there like in this spirit of unlocking these other doors and trying new things like hell yeah, like let's, let's go. Let's go. You know, LFG Zen. All right. ([Time 0:33:15](https://share.snipd.com/snip/ad17d91f-9d4e-432c-8827-329d736ef4a7))