title:: 643 —  Todd McFarlane, Iconic Comic Book Artist — Lessons From Stan Lee, How to Make Art That Outlives You, How to Compete With Corporate Giants and Win (While Having Fun), Dealmaking Strategies, War...
author:: [[The Tim Ferriss Show]]
full-title:: "\#643 —  Todd McFarlane, Iconic Comic Book Artist — Lessons From Stan Lee, How to Make Art That Outlives You, How to Compete With Corporate Giants and Win (While Having Fun), Dealmaking Strategies, War Stories From Wall Street and Lawyer Land, Taking Responsibility for Your Life, and Why Creators Need to Smash Limits"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/fdf546f6-b641-46bc-98ec-aaa63162d41b

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Dec 18th, 2022]]
	- Don't Expect Other People to Make You Happy
	  
	  Summary:
	  Some people put the bar too high when they apply for jobs, he says. They expect others to make their life better and then get crushed if they don't land a job. He suggests that before you go into an interview, assume it's not going to be perfect. It will give you more of a positive outlook on your day than being disappointed would have otherwise.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  What tortures people and some of you are listening are the people who have the bar higher than that. Did you see this email that's got sent me that son of a bitch? Oh, you thought today was going to be perfect. Did you see that guy? That guy cut me off on the freeway, right? Oh, that guy cut me off here in line. I was waiting in line and they cut me off getting a ticket for the Black Panther movie and I can't get in or whatever. Oh, somebody said something about my haircut. Somebody said something about like what? So you thought that the world was going to be perfect and that everybody was going to wake up and that they were going to make your life better. You know who woke up in the planet today with eight billion people and said, I'm going to make Todd's life better today. There was only one human being one. And that was me. No other human being, not even my wife. That was their mission today. That was me. So if you're expecting others to make you happy and make it accommodating for you, you're going to get crushed. So here's what I would say. Lower the bar. Go to your job interview and before you walk in, give it your damn this, but assume you're not getting the job. Give it your damn this, but assume you're not getting it. So when they don't phone you back and when you don't get the job, you're okay with it because if anything, you actually take it as a pride that you actually called the shot. I knew it. I knew it. I went there. They didn't give it to me. Dumb shit. But I knew it. And pretty soon you don't get hired for 10, 20 jobs in a row. And you're on a hot streak now. You're actually feeling pretty good that you called it 20 times in a row. You're not getting the job. And then guess what happens? You go to the 21st interview and you give it your best and you walk away and they go, Todd, where are you going? I'm out of here because I know you're not going to hire me. And they go, no. We actually want to offer you a job. And here's why that's an awesome day because what sort of kind of caused a frustrate. First off, they broke my streak of 20 of 20 nose in a row. So I'm a little frustrated that my streak went away because I'm like, God damn it. They broke my streak. But by breaking my streak, I got the job. I got the job. It's a good day. Here's what most people do, Tim. And my family members do the same thing. And I can't help them. It's personality. They actually think they're going to get every job they go and apply for. And when they don't, they get crushed. It literally crushes their soul for two or three days. And they're just, they're a shell of a person. Why? Because they put the bar high. The bar was that we were going to get the job. No, put the bar where it says I'm not getting the job and you will never be disappointed. Assume today is not going to be perfect and assume human beings are flawed. And you will have a pretty damn good light because guess what happens? Some days, nobody cuts you off. Nobody cuts in line and nobody writes you a bad email. And it's a pretty good day. It's a pretty good day because sort of [[discomfort]] didn't come. Not that you won the lottery. Not that your team won the championship. You just didn't have a lot of aggravation. You didn't get sued today. Cool. It's a good day. I don't know. I psyched myself out. I psyched myself out for little success. So when any of it comes, it's cool. We talked about it with selling the toys at 60,000. There's either way to get to 60,000 sales and it be a negative or it can be a positive. It depends on how you psych yourself out. I am a horrible golfer. Horrible golfer. I don't do it much. Also, I've had people say, Todd, you're the worst golfer who doesn't care. Here's why I don't care because I don't golf. I don't assume I'm going to get better by not golfing every three years. Any more than my Mandarin and my Spanish is going to get better by me not practicing either one of those languages either. You don't get better by not doing it. So when I go golf the odd time, I'm in Phoenix. I'm horrible. But every now and then I get lucky and all of a sudden I get on a par five. ([Time 2:18:12](https://share.snipd.com/snip/a3a2f786-e32c-4859-b32a-0c36832970c6))