title:: 652 —  Famed Explorer Wade Davis — How to Become the Architect of Your Life, the Divine Leaf of Immortality, Rites of Passage, Voodoo Demystified, Optimism as the Purpose of Life, How to Be a Prolifi...
author:: [[The Tim Ferriss Show]]
full-title:: "\#652 —  Famed Explorer Wade Davis — How to Become the Architect of Your Life, the Divine Leaf of Immortality, Rites of Passage, Voodoo Demystified, Optimism as the Purpose of Life, How to Be a Prolific Writer, Psychedelics, Monetizing the Creativity of Your Life, and More"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/22697453-2a43-4c75-9e59-64b6803caf3d

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 4th, 2023]]
	- Young People Must Stand for Something More Than Themselves
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Youth conservation corps are a great way to give young people the opportunity to learn about other parts of America and to help make the country a better place., * Physical activity is key for boys, and can help to build character and community spirit.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  You know, this is why I think there should be youth conservation corps in every state and national park, you know, there's nothing better than for a 15 year old boy with all those hormonal spasms and all that pimply face to just be forced to cut firewood all day. And these kind of opportunities aren't trivial. They create the character of our young. There's no reason whatsoever that our government in the United States shouldn't be able to mobilize resources that would make available to every young American boy and girl the opportunity to travel with an America to know another face of America, another section of the country, Californians to Iowa, Kansans to Miami and so on, and give them work to help make us a better country, you know, whether it's picking up plastic or caring for the elder, whatever it is, again, giving young people a sense that they're not the center of the universe, that they live to help others that we do exist as a community, that you have to be humble and just because you believe it doesn't mean it's true and that the democratization of opinion doesn't mean that your opinion counts as much as an elder who has lived through life that you can't even Imagine. You know, there are ways to make this possible, but physical activity is the key, I think, particularly for men, which is why say what you will about the military, you know, it is done more good for more young men in its history, not that obviously we would not criticize some of the engagements, but you know what I'm saying, as an institution of the nation that stands for the nation, you know, young people have to learn that there's something bigger than themselves that they need to be loyal to, and that's not necessarily a country, it's a concept, it's the idea of community, ([Time 1:26:42](https://share.snipd.com/snip/f382fd8c-2ee6-41e0-b6ce-1824ab0bdf98))
	- Practicing Excellence
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Creativity is not the motivation of action, but a consequence of action., * To become a better writer, you need to study the work of the masters., * To become a better musician, you need to practice.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  And you know, you can always go out on the lyrical edge, if you will, because you can always pull it back, but you can't bring spirit to dry prose, you know, so. And it's interesting. I mean, like everything else, you get better and better the more you do it. Now I write bizarrely effortlessly. I mean, no one writes effortlessly. Heming was said anyway, says a write easily is either a bad writer or a liar. But I certainly don't. Also, I've never mistook activity for results, because I've been self employed most of my life. And I've never indulged writer's block. Can you imagine if a plumber came to your home, looked at you and suddenly patted their brow and said, just can't do it today. I've got plumber's block. You call a bloody police, right? Oh, writing's a craft you get up in the morning and you do it. But one of the things that really was amazing to me, a real turning point in my life, having been raised in that kind of simple middle class world where creativity happens to someone else, you know, the Beatles are creative, you know, that Leonard Bernstein is creative, whatever. When I finally understood that creativity is not the motivation of action, it's a consequence of action. If you don't do, you can't create. So, you know, that insight and acting on the insight changed my life. I never sat around to wait for permission to write about any subject. People will say, Oh, I can't write about World War One, because I'm a botanist. No, you apply the same research skills that you use to write about the Haitian zombie to understanding the essence of British culture in Edwardian England. In the same token, you can't be a photographer if you don't take pictures. You know, the way you become a better photographer is to take more and more images and to study the work of the masters. That's what I always would say to a young person. You know, if you want to write nonfiction, find the nonfiction that you think is the best going and pay attention. Don't just read it, study it. It's the same thing with music. When you listen to any of these great characters from Jimmy Page to the beloved and late Jeff Beck, I just terrible, he passed away, they always talk about how they mind the work of every other blues player before them, you know, practice, practice, practice. I mean, Jerry Garcia never had a guitar out of his hands, nor did Hendrix. ([Time 2:15:08](https://share.snipd.com/snip/83e136cf-b070-49fe-9d8d-a6b83ff62441))