title:: 70 Scott Adams —  Avoiding Loserthink (highlights)
author:: [[The Knowledge Project with Shane Parrish]]
full-title:: "\#70 Scott Adams —  Avoiding Loserthink"
category:: #podcasts

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- What Do Losers Think?
	  
	  Summary:
	  People tend to come at topics with just the filter that they just happen to have because of the life that they led. What i recommend is that you expose yourself at least to the general ideas of how other people think. The most common explanation for something you don't understand is stuff you've never heard of, things you haven't imagined. There's just plenty of proof that there's something going on there that is either some dark ohuman thing or an alien thing. This has just happened recently. Somebody was asked about all those u f o sightings that we're hearing about from the military. And his thinking was, well, these military guys seem reliable. It's multiple people who saw this
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  An so what order the skills that we can take away from that in terms of avoiding what you call losers think? I mean, in the book, you have chapters like, think like a psychologist, think like an artist, think like a historian. Can you expand onlike what losers think is how we can go about learning things to overcome it?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yes. So i define losers think, not as a quality of the individual. So when i say somebody is using losers think, i don't mean that they're a loser. It's not about the person. It is about the experience which the person has been subjected to. So since i have a degree in economics, as i mention, when i look at a situation in the news, i can apply that filter in a way that others perhaps could not. But it wouldn't take you four years to get a degree in economics to learn the basics, likewise for sychology, history, art and other things. So people tend to come at topics with just the filter that they just happen to have because of the life that they led. What i recommend is that you expose yourself at least to the general ideas of how other people think. For example, if somebody were to say, how good is a certain precident doing, it does it doesn't have to be this precedent, i'd make general point. If you say, how good a president was, president x, the average person will say, well, i think that person did a good job, or that person did a terrible job. Those are both ridiculous opinions. And an economist would be in a position to tell you why, because you haven't compared that president to another president who was doing the same job at the same time, under the same circumstances. Without that comparison, which, by the way, any scientist would know to compare. So it's not just economist. There are certain disciplinesat that are good at comparing things, but most people have never learned the art of comparing things. The only way you could know if a president did a good or bad job, i mean, short of, you know, being treasonous or something ridiculous, that's obvious on is face, but you really couldn't tell if a democrat had been elected, if the economy would be doing even better. You don't know, if a different republican had been elected, we'd be war, because this a hympothetical yes? So there's no way to compare any president to anything that's actually meaningful. So anybody who has a strong opinion on it, again, unless teres some major event, starting a war that wasn't necessary, et cetera, you can't tell that would be obvious to a scientist, obvious to an economist, obvious to lot of people have mbas, et cetera, would not be obvious to an artist. And onsocial media, it's very interesting when i'll see people who make what i would call common mistakes of comparisons, i often check their profile and turn off its musician, its artist. And is completely expectent. These are not people who are dumb. These are not who are losers. These are people who are applying loser think accidentally because they haven't been exposed to the proper ways of comparing things. Now, comparing things is just one topic of loser think, but it's tee general idea that although we gev me one from to day. This has just happened recently. Somebody was asked me about all those u f o sightings that we're hearing about from the military. And his thinking was, well, these military guys seem reliable. It's multiple people who saw this thing. They can't explain it. These u f o things seem to have defied physics. They locked on to em with their instruments. There's just plenty of proof that there's something going on there that is either some dark ohuman thing or an alien thing. One of the things that say a psych logist, somebody who is trained in psychology, might inform those people is that the most common explanation for something you don't understand is stuff you've never heard of, things you haven't imagined. So sometimes we think that the evidence is proving somethings true. In this case, it's proof thera u f o, or at least something we don't understand. Whereas i say, now, the far more common explanation is mass hysteria. Because mass hysteria happens all the time. I wold say half of the news is representing some kind of mass hysteria for one side or the other. Now here is an interesting part of it. Was listening to so clip where one of the pilots who was one of the main witnesses to this phenomenon, these u f o type things. But he describes experience, and his experience seemed really credible and fitios. He ad other witnesses very detailed. He's a credible guy, and all looks very credible. And then he adds this at the end. He tells the audience that his mother in law is so interested in u f os that every time he sees her, she asks if he's seen one yet. That's your tal because he's primed, i call a hypnotize, but people complain when i use that word, heis set up to have a confirmation by us because he wants to see them and is being reminded of them all the time. So if you didn't know that, suddenly say, you are not a psychologist. Why say you are not someone who workd in a law enforcement because people work in law enforcement could see this a mile away. ([Time 0:32:30](https://share.snipd.com/snip/b5c9bd73-a933-43d3-881c-a60d3f89f1ac))