title:: 788 —  His Love Is Bona Fide, Not a Mail-Order Bride | Feedback Friday (highlights)
author:: [[The Jordan Harbinger Show]]
full-title:: "788 —  His Love Is Bona Fide, Not a Mail-Order Bride | Feedback Friday"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/0a0bb8c2-80c6-48bb-9c60-e2f3a7d5ed02

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 4th, 2023]]
	- The Future of China Is Enormously Fascinating
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Chinese immigrants in the West are largely apathetic about the Chinese Communist Party and the regime it runs, with a few exceptions., * The CCP is able to exert a lot of influence over Chinese immigrants, even if they live in the West., * The declining birth rate is going to cause massive problems for China, and China is trying to pump immeasurable amounts of money into projects to counteract the effects.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Hey, Jordan and Gabe, you've had some very enlightening guests on the show talking about China and the horrific regime of the CCP, which is expanding its influence around the world. That's the Chinese Communist Party. If you don't know. Do you think Chinese people who have immigrated out of China to the West are more pro-Western democracy, at least in support of its ideals? Or are they still loyal to the CCP? Do you think there's a way that Chinese immigrants could help bring down the regime in some way? And what do you make of the fact that China's declining birth rate is creating a void in their workforce, and could therefore collapse its infrastructure? Signed, watching the big yellow star from afar. Great questions.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I've been asking myself the same ones for a while. The future of China is just endlessly fascinating for me. And yeah, it has huge implications for the rest of the world, which I guess is why it's so fascinating. And you're right, China is facing some huge problems right now. And Xi Jinping ain't taken responsibility for a lot of them. That declining birth rate, it wasn't me. Nice. Yeah. Massive void in the workforce. It wasn't she. We want to get an expert's opinion here. So we decided to run all of this by my buddy Matthew Tai, aka Lao Y 86. You did dead jokes on fire today. YouTube vlogger and human rights advocate. He lived in China for 10 years, and he runs a whole channel all about China. We'll link it in the show notes. We also did an interview on this show about how the Chinese social credit score system works. Really great conversation. So the first thing Lao Y said was that he's met Chinese people all across this spectrum. He's met a lot of people who are definitely supportive of the Chinese Communist Party, even if they live in the United States. And in his experience, those folks tend to maintain roots back in China, of course, but they also tend to exclusively consume Chinese language media from mainland China, which is also essentially state run media. He's also met many people who are very opposed to the Chinese Communist Party, the CCP, and these people who would essentially be considered dissidents, they're anti CCP, generally speaking, they've integrated better into the society where they live over in the West. They've often joined some sort of community, whether that's a church or a human rights group or something like that. But in Lao Y's experience, the vast majority of Chinese immigrants he's met are largely apathetic about the whole system. And that mirrors the general sentiment in China. In his view, China is a very patriotic and nationalistic country. But when push comes to shove citizens and even immigrants, they just don't care much about politics because they know they have very little slash no power to affect change within their country, within China. And that's been my experience too. There's a certain nihilism that takes root in subjects of regimes like this, a sort of what's the point philosophy? You see that in the former Eastern block, oh, the government's all corrupt, you can't do anything anyways. As Lao Y put it to us, lying low and maintaining apathy, it's actually a really it's a survival strategy. It's a good way to stay off the CCP's radar, because yeah, they absolutely have sway over people in other countries. They will try to influence you or mess with your family back home. In fact, you can see the extent of the CCP's reach when you read things like the new report from the safeguard defenders, the safeguard defenders. If you don't know, it's basically a human rights NGO. They carry out a lot of great research on China, specifically monitoring disappearances there and stuff like that. And recently, they discovered the existence of over a hundred Chinese police stations operating abroad. You heard me right. It's mind blowing. I'm talking about a Chinese police station operating in another country with Chinese police officers. They're running a lot of things, but one of them is Operation Fox Hunt. And it's a covert operation that's supposed to it's supposedly designed to root out corruption inside the Chinese Communist Party. But it's been accused of targeting Chinese dissidents abroad. And it's scared a lot of Chinese people from speaking out against the regime. Imagine a Chinese police officer in your country like you live in France, and there's a fricking Chinese police station there. So if you organize something Chinese police show up, it's fricking unbelievable. So ultimately, in Laoise view, unless Western countries do something to weed out Chinese government influence in their own jurisdictions, very little will change in Chinese communities abroad, especially. They simply don't feel safe speaking out. And when they see politicians, elites and other powerful people in Western countries investing, supporting and associating with the Chinese government, the Communist Party, they don't find it very reassuring, as you might expect. As for China's declining birth rate, which is also a fascinating problem, Laoise take is, yeah, it's going to cause massive problems for China. He also thinks that China is trying to pump immeasurable amounts of money into projects that could theoretically negate some of the worst effects of the declining birth rate. As he put it to us, China's miscalculation of the effects of the one child policy and the knee jerk reaction to overturning it, all of that is going to be devastating. Because after all, China is still very much a manufacturing country pretending that they are somehow ready to adapt to a new world of AI and chip manufacturing and high tech industries. It's a fool's game. In his opinion, this so-called pivot to a new type of economy, it's premature. And it's yet another knee jerk reaction to not being able to deal with the outcome of past policy mistakes, like making sure people can't have more than one kid because of overpopulation. I mean, you just can't dictate a country that big into doing what you want and expect no blowback. ([Time 0:48:32](https://share.snipd.com/snip/4596e87a-9dde-4483-a94b-98df98574257))