title:: [NEW] Why Technology Still Matters With Marc Andreessen (highlights)
author:: [[a16z Podcast]]
full-title:: "[NEW] Why Technology Still Matters With Marc Andreessen"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/42db57fc-f782-4290-9433-a74e7d9dd032

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Is There a Cycle Between Innovation and Technology?
	  
	  Summary:
	  Mark Zuckerberg: Technology has always kind of gone through the cycle and I would go so far as to say like the technology adoption cycle, resistance cycle. Douglas Adams said basically it's like any technology that existed before you were like 15 years old is just like the natural order of things. And then any new technology that arrives after the age of 35 is unholy and against the natural order, right, and it's going to bring doom to civilization. Different societies have sort of different ethics and belief systems around even just like the fundamental idea of progress, right? He says there are certain societies in global history that at different points in time have decided like we're just not going to do new things
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  And like we talked about, that comes with time. But the reason I asked you how you made that shift or almost in some way changed your opinion as you got new data is because I wonder how perhaps we might be able to do that within the framing of how people view innovation and technology. Kind of returning to what we talked about at the very beginning of this conversation, it does feel like there is this perception of technology. Of course, not everyone holds it that, you know, we're in a bad place or, again, the world's getting worse or insert negative thing about our current state of affairs. And I think it's really inspiring at least at A16Z to see that people do hold this very optimistic view. And I wonder what you think maybe we can do as a collective, as a society, to maybe orient more around this more positive view of technology, because from my understanding and I'd actually love for you to go into this history, it doesn't sound like this was always the case that technology, I mean, specific technologies were viewed quite negatively, but a sense around innovation, I think, has been different in the past. Is that right?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeah, so that's a good point. So technology has always kind of gone through the cycle and I would go so far as to say like the technology adoption cycle, resistance cycle, like I'm not sure it's actually going to change Douglas Adams, the science section of the Douglas Adams who wrote the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy had another take on this. Oh, yes. Both very funny, very serious, right? So he said basically it's like any technology that existed before you were like 15 years old is just like the natural order of things. Any technology that gets invented between the time when you're like 15 and 35 is like new and exciting and cool and cutting edge and like maybe you can make a career in it. And then any new technology that arrives after the age of 35 is unholy and against the natural order, right, and it's going to bring doom to civilization. Another way to kind of putting the sim cycle. So, so like the most kind of, I don't know, the most negative thing you could say or something would be like there's just this like permanent generational psychological thing, this cycle where another famous quote, I think it's the great business. Max Planck once said science advances one funeral at a time, meaning that like, you know, in science, you need like the old senior scientists who have like one paradigm to like quite literally die off so that the young scientists of the new paradigm can actually like take over. You know, that sort of pessimistic view would be like this is just so deeply baked into the mentality of how people operate psychologically that it's just like the permanent state of affairs. By the way, like, I don't know if that's optimal for society, I will tell you that state of affairs is very good for entrepreneurs, right, because if more people in positions of power were more open and new technologies, right, the opportunity, especially for the young entrepreneur with a breakthrough idea would actually diminish right because the big old companies are already be doing all the new things. And so it may be like one response to me would be like Mark shut up, like stop talking to people about this because we actually want everybody in position of power to just assume that all new technologies are stupid and evil because we want all the opportunity to be available to all the kids who are starting all the new companies. So, so yeah, so that's one side of things and then yeah that which you mentioned so this broader societal thing so then there's this broader societal thing is happening which is basically this sort of societies. Different societies have sort of different ethics and belief systems around even just like the fundamental idea of progress, right, and so I won't pick on, I won't name names but let's just say there are certain societies in global history that, you know, at different points in time have decided like we're just not going to do new things like we're not going to talk to outside people, we're not going to adopt new technologies. I mean there are societies on, you know, I'm planning, you know, I mean, North Korea, you know there are societies like that today. Well, another example, you know, the Amish like have an entire religion and belief system right around the fact that they don't adopt new technologies. By the way, like I'm a free market's free minds guy. I think people should live how they want it. They want to live that way. I think that's fine. It's a choice. You can choose right to not like think progress is a good thing to not think that new technology should be adopted. I would argue in the fullness of time, you know, it's, it's hard to have your quality of life be at the same level as if you're, you're more open in new technologies but like, you know, societies do decide that they don't want new technologies. If you kind of look historically at the US and more broadly kind of the West, you do basically see this pattern where there was a lot of resistance to new ideas, you know, call it from the end of the Roman Empire through to basically the Renaissance. So called Dark Ages, right. So there was like a whatever 1200 years stretch or something where not much happened. And then basically, you know, over the last 500 years, like in the West, there's sort of this ethos of progress that kind of emerged and the, you know, the ultimate and the scientific revolution and industrial revolution, right, and so forth and the rise of Protestantism, which was very important because it meant that people can seek out the answers to life's mysteries on their own, right. And then the rise of what was called natural philosophy that became science. And so there was sort of this system that was developed to basically go uncover basically scientific truths and then build your technologies and then basically builds, you know, what we consider to be like a modern capitalist economy on top of that. ([Time 0:54:04](https://share.snipd.com/snip/c08d7725-28b8-46ea-b527-557f17b59e4e))