title:: A Short History of Nearly Everything (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "A Short History of Nearly Everything"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/a-short-history-of-nearly-everything/
document_note:: Bill Bryson's book "A Short History of Nearly Everything" provides a comprehensive overview of natural history, from the Big Bang to the present day, exploring topics such as molecules, atoms, physics, magnetism, volcanoes, age and size of Earth, solar system, elements, oceans, bacteria, fossils, taxonomy, cells, DNA, ice ages, and early humans. It highlights key scientific discoveries such as the weight of the Earth, the periodic table, quantum theory, and the Big Bang, as well as the five major extinction episodes and the evolution of life. It also reflects on humanity's place in the universe, emphasizing our insignificance in the grand scheme of things.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 18th, 2023]]
	- Earth is very good at promoting life, even better at extinguishing it (99.9% of all species that have ever existed are extinct) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gshzx28zkzf8he2k4ashqvnh))
	- "It is easy to overlook this thought that life just is. As humans we are inclined to feel that life must have a point. We have plans and aspirations and desires...Lichens, like virtually all living things, will suffer any hardship, endure any insult for a moment's additional existence. Life, in short, just wants to be. But-and here's an interesting point - for the most part it doesn't want to be much." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gshzxgzzajj8mm20421bezb8))
		- **Note**: Humans often think that life must have a reason or purpose, like having goals and dreams. But, other living things like lichens do not need a purpose. They will keep living even if it is hard or difficult. Life just wants to keep living, but not necessarily to be too successful or important.
	- Most profound but true statement - all life is one. This becomes crystal clear when you take the long-term view and see how all of life has evolved together and relies on each other ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gshzyg6vm0ca6qcqqq95mxxc))
		- **Note**: All living things on Earth are connected. This means that everything depends on each other to stay alive. When you look at the big picture and consider how life has changed over time, it becomes very clear that all living things depend on each other.