title:: Against the Odds: An Autobiography (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Against the Odds: An Autobiography"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/against-the-odds/
document_note:: In his autobiography, Dyson shares his unorthodox business philosophy - to create something new out of nothing and to never underestimate the role of beauty in design. He emphasizes the importance of creating a product that works better and looks better than existing ones, as well as investing in the early stages to ensure success. He also encourages inventors to not trust in experts and to hire young people who can throw ideas around. He believes that only by trying to sell the product yourself can you really come to understand it and bond with it. Furthermore, he encourages creating something with substance and style value that consumers cannot get anywhere else. He believes that failure can motivate inventors to work towards success.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 19th, 2023]]
	- Anyone can become an expert in anything in six months ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfpq6k3dnvw4cs5xa22tke))
	- Don't overanalyze! Just go out and build it. With enthusiasm and intelligence, anything is possible. The root principle is to do things your way ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfpxq9m7wagbh9263bkfgh))
	- Working and aligning with first principles - "It is a law of physics - don't ask me why, I don't make these laws - that when a particle with mass makes its first turn around a curved wall its speed is multiplied three times. You can see it happening when the ball is spun in a roulette wheel, or better still when you shoot a ball in a pinball machine and it accelerates around the corner. Now, the reason that the cyclone is cone shaped is that when you reduce the diameter around which your object is travelling it will accelerate again, by about 50%. In this way the cyclone in the vacuum cleaner, for example, accelerates the dust particles from 20MPH to 600MPH and then to 924MPH, or about 324,000RPM. You need to think of the whole caboodle, dust and air, as being like a long sausage. As it enters the top of the cyclone it is being pushed round and round the walls until it comes to the bottom. The dust and rubbish, which has this great weight, is not enjoying the journey, adjust as when you drive your car hard at a bend it wants to keep on going straight and you have to exert pressure on the steering wheel to keep the car on the road. The air, which has no mass, doesn't have this problem, and rather than straining at the walls, which would ultimately blow the whole thing up, it can get to the center of the cyclone, and take the easiest possible exit. So, at the top of the cyclone, in the middle is a chimney. The air happily escapes out of the whole; the particles cannot. Thus, the only thing that can get out is pure air, so no expelled dust, and no smells. Like so many industrialists, the particle has an insurmountable sheep mentality ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfq5k05d50bk2teaaksnax))
		- **Note**: This text is about the physics behind cyclones and how they work. It explains that when a particle with mass is spun around a curved wall, its speed is multiplied three times and as the diameter decreases, the acceleration increases by 50%. It goes on to explain that the air in a cyclone has no mass and so is able to escape out of the center, taking the dust and rubbish with it, leaving only clean air and no smell. It concludes by noting that the particles are unable to escape and have a "sheep mentality".
	- You have to take the Edisonian approach: test, and test, and test until it works best. I made hundreds of cyclones in the early years, and then thousands of them. Testing all the different styles, I found that the important thing was the entry point that it should enter peripherally, and at a pure tangent. I tried it with one entry and with two entries, I even made one with 140 entries, just in case it was better, but you only ever got one flow of air. Slow, slow, slow. These things cannot be hurried. When you develop a prototype you have to change only one thing at a time. If you are really going to improve things, and that is what inventing is all about, then you are going to have to be patient, very patient. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfr7nmwcg44pr8cwva5cs7))
		- **Note**: Inventing requires a lot of patience and hard work. To improve things, you have to keep testing different ideas. I tried a lot of different styles of cyclones, and found that the important thing was the way the air entered the cyclone. I even made one with 140 entries, but only got one flow of air. I had to be careful to only change one thing at a time when I was developing a prototype. If I wanted to improve things, I had to be very patient and take my time.
	- Design / Invention Philosophy
	  
	  1.  No one ever had an idea staring at a drawing board - Francis Bacon always got his ideas from walking in the country-side and observing nature, rather than sitting in his study. SO get out and look at things, and when an idea comes, grab it, write it down, and play with it until it works. Don't sit and expect ideas to come.
	  2.  Every day products sell
	  3.  New technology - the thing about truly new technology is that it makes your invention patentable. And then no one can copy it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfs7ymz8wqega0x84rmvf4))
	- Only way to make any real money is to offer the public something entirely new, that has style value, as well as substance, and which they cannot get anywhere else ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfsm3xhd0cw4mpp3htwkx8))
	- It is in our engineers that we should place our greatest faith for the present, in that they determine the way our future will be ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskftrxzcxh7zk1rhvqqqzej))
	- Was a great runner when he was young and he trained differently than everyone else - he used the sand dunes in his home country to train and build his endurance. "In so many ways it taught me the most significant lessons in all my youth. I was learning about the physical and psychological strength that keeps you competitive. I was learning about obstinacy. I was learning how to overcome nerves, and as I grew more and more neurotic about being caught from behind, I trained harder to stay in front. It is a horribly labored analogy - and it is flavored with the fickle seasoning of hindsight - but to this day it is the fear of failure, more than anything else, which makes me keep working at success." This later helped me build the confidence and the stupidity to start doing things differently not only in sports, but in academics and in business ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfv4mp49sg4k8rnewc505j))
		- **Note**: The author recounts his experience of training differently than other runners when he was young, using sand dunes to improve his endurance. He learned valuable lessons of physical and psychological strength, obstinacy, and how to overcome nerves. This later helped him to build the confidence and courage to take risks in sports, academics, and business.