title:: AMA #3 —  Adaptogens, Fasting & Fertility, Bluetooth/Emf Risks, Cognitive Load Limits & More (highlights)
author:: [[Huberman Lab]]
full-title:: "AMA \#3 —  Adaptogens, Fasting & Fertility, Bluetooth/Emf Risks, Cognitive Load Limits & More"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/ad85e1d7-cf0e-45ec-afe5-3e34caf0ff04

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 17th, 2023]]
	- How to Reduce Stress and Improve Sleep with Adaptogens
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Adaptogens are substances that help reduce stress., * Adaptogenic substances can be found in dark leafy greens and cruciferous vegetables., * It is important to cook cruciferous vegetables so that they are not overcooked.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  So if you're somebody who's interested in adaptogens and adaptogenic processes, reducing stress and buffering stress, which of course has its role in buffering daily stress in order to help you sleep better, to improve cell or function for longevity, sports performance, cognitive performance, that is all good. And it makes sense why people would be interested in adaptogens. But remember that the two main adaptogens that you should think to first are going to be behaviors and nutrition. I've started with nutrition on purpose, as I mentioned, we'll get to behaviors in a moment. So if you're interested in adaptogens at all, I highly recommend that you include at least two to four servings of dark leafy greens and or cruciferous vegetables per day. I think that'd be highly advantageous. And just be aware that excessively heating dark leafy greens or cruciferous vegetables can actually destroy the very nutrients and micronutrients that act in an adaptogenic way. That does not mean that you need to eat raw broccoli or cauliflower. Just the thought of that makes me nauseous. It's very hard to digest. Some people might like that or can digest it more easily than others. So it's perfectly fine to cook your cruciferous vegetables in dark leafy greens, but you don't want to overcook them. What's overcooking and what's undercooking? There's no strict cut off in terms of temperature. But basically what the literature says is that if you heat vegetables to the point where the colored fluid is leaching out of them into a broth type, you know, into water or whatever fluid surrounds them, well then you would be well off to ingest that fluid as well because it contained in the water or the fluid that's leaching out from the cruciferous vegetables or from the dark leafy greens are going to be a lot of those very adaptogenic molecules that you're interested in the first place. Okay, so I probably surprised some people by starting off my answer to the question of what are adaptogens. ([Time 0:05:12](https://share.snipd.com/snip/db3c0a16-f3d8-4bcd-aec4-2d09d00263c5))
	- How to Use Adaptogens to Reduce Cortisol Levels
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Adaptogens can reduce cortisol levels and inflammation., * Athletic Greens is a good source of ashwagandal.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  That said, there are good data showing that 1,000 milligrams, that is one gram of lion's mane per day, and or, okay, we'll talk about the and or portion in a moment, and or chaga mushroom at 500 to 1500 milligrams per day can act as adaptogens in, again, reducing cortisol, but also, and mainly reducing some of the anti-inflammatory cytokines that are known to circulate in high abundance when you're under a lot of psychological and or physical stress, things like interleukin-6 and some related molecules. So here's what I would recommend. If you are interested in exploring adaptogens, I'm a big fan, as some of you probably know, if you heard that episode on Rational Guide to Supplementation, I'm a big fan of mainly focusing on taking supplements in single ingredient formulations so that you can figure out what dosages are best for you and so that you can toggle in and out those adaptogens as needed. So I, of course, am a fan of taking certain blends and mixes. The one that we talk about a lot on this podcast, and we have been a sponsor from the beginning. I've taken for a decade now, long before I ever had a podcast, is Athletic Greens, which some of you might note does contain some ashwagandal, though the levels of ashwagandal that are contained in Athletic Greens are low enough that I don't see any issue with taking Athletic Greens consistently day to day, every day, because you're not getting anywhere near that 600 milligram dosage. But the idea is that if you are going to take any adaptogen, forsake a buffering stress over the short term, say for a week or two weeks or a month, and then taking that recommended time off, I would start with ashwagandal, and then if you feel you need something else to buffer stress, keeping in mind, of course, that you're doing the behavioral and the nutritional things to buffer stress as well, you can never abandon those, right? ([Time 0:17:17](https://share.snipd.com/snip/06f9395a-9a99-4006-8a3a-2e56bb5fe531))