title:: An Inside Look at How Figma Builds Product | Yuhki Yamashita (highlights)
author:: [[Lenny's Podcast: Product | Growth | Career]]
full-title:: "An Inside Look at How Figma Builds Product | Yuhki Yamashita"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/fab4b792-aa91-4147-8a90-c20508976827

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 17th, 2023]]
	- [[Figma]] [[Product Manager]] Interview Process
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Figma encourages experimentation and tries new things that are working., * The success of Figma is due to the great people that they hire., * Product managers at Figma have a lot of skills that are valuable in the industry.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  I love hearing that, that whole journey, I feel like you always hear from [[product]] [[teams]], here's what we do now. You never hear, here's the experiments we've been through. Here's what we've tried. Here's what worked for a while. Here's what doesn't work now. And here's what we're doing now. So it's really cool just to hear all the experimentation you've done. Clearly, Figma is a company where you encourage [[experimentation]] and trying new things that are working. And it's cool they have the flexibility to just like, let's just do headlines for now. No more specific goal metrics. We're just going to build things that we think are important. And then the newsletter posts for folks that are listening, you actually share the templates that you're using these days for planning your projects and kind of laying out your OCRs. So folks can check those out if they're interested in seeing how you're doing that now. You also mentioned you've hired this awesome data scientist. And maybe just expanding that further. I imagine a lot of the success of Figma and the product that you built is the people that you hire at Figma. I believe you have 22 product managers, which sounds very small for a company like Figma. And I imagine they're all amazing. I'm curious what you look for in product [[leaders]] and [[product managers]]. Be hired that maybe other folks aren't as focused on. And just like what does the interview process look like at Figma?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeah, I shared some of these things, right? Like, I really feel passionately about storytelling and not to give it away or anything. But one of my favorite interview questions is asking, describe to me a time when you're part of a controversial product assistant, right? And what did you do and all those things? And I think it's really revealing because if they can kind of like set up this conflict and understand like why this problem was really important and represent both sides and the subset, you can understand why that conflict exists in the first place. And they can do it. And there's kind of like, you know, even keeled way where you realize that they can take on these different perspectives. Like, you start to learn a lot about that person, I think. Or sometimes I just ask them for basic things like, okay, talk about kind of like a big problem that you worked on. And the thought experiment for me is always like, coming out of that, do I feel compelled to work on that problem? Right? And no matter how boring it sounds on the surface, like, I think a really great product manager kind of like, cast something as like, this is why it's so existential close and there's slides so interesting and like really rallied at trips. So that's kind of one big thing of like storytelling communication because at the end of the day, like so much of our job is around that. I think other than that, you know, some of the things that I value are things like, I kind of think about it's like, high down with UX conversations. It's kind of like, we talk about problem and, you know, I think about kind of like, when you're exploring solutions, it's kind of this tree of, okay, there's just these branches of explorations and you kind of finally arrive at these solutions. And like, a ton of people who can go up and down branches really quickly have a really high a command of all these different altitudes as well. So that we can talk through a lot of things at that end of the day, kind of feel like we walk away with some progress. And, you know, I, I think that like at Uber, our first two product officer, Jeff Holden was someone who often talks about kind of fast forwarding to the future. And this idea that, you know, okay, like, let's just pretend we ran that experiment. What do you think it'll come back with? Or let's pretend we like ran that you just use a study. And like the kind of PMs that have the ability to kind of imagine those outcomes. I think like, it helps me much more efficient too, because we're like, well, if we all think that's going to go there, and that's not going to compel us to take any action, why do it at all? Right. And so I think a lot of PM is about kind of those kinds of shortcuts that you have to take, right? And it's not just about what we build. It's about, you know, building the right things. And sometimes this is important to like decide not to build something. But it's all only possible if you can have that kind of like imagination or that ability to see around corners. I love that. ([Time 0:47:38](https://share.snipd.com/snip/3ff45f64-f63f-47fd-bb2a-74af8f041f59))