title:: Autobiography (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Autobiography"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/autobiography/
document_note:: This text is an excerpt from an autobiography of a man who was determined to strive for perfection by practicing virtues such as frugality, humility, sincerity, and chastity. He set up a subscription library and formed a club of mutual improvement with his friends to help him in his quest for self-improvement. He also advices others to take a more humble approach when speaking, in order to avoid creating opposition. He further shares the importance of returning favors and using kindness as a way to gain more favors.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- It was about this time I conceived the bold and arduous project of arriving at moral perfection. I wished to live without committing any fault at any time; I would conquer all that either natural inclination, custom, or company might lead me into. As I knew, or thought I knew, what was right and wrong, I did not see why I might not always do the one and avoid the other. But I soon found I had undertaken a task of more difficulty than I had imagined. While my care was employed in guarding against one fault, I was often surprised by another; habit took the advantage of inattention; inclination was sometimes too strong for reason. I concluded at length that the mere speculative conviction that it was our interest to be completely virtuous was not sufficient to prevent our slipping; and that the contrary habits must be broken, and good ones acquired and established, before we can have any dependence on a steady, uniform rectitude of conduct. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp6ye68b9ds41a814qwwg85))
		- **Note**: At this time I had an ambitious idea to be perfect and never do anything wrong. I wanted to be able to resist any temptation, like following a bad habit or going along with something wrong that people around me were doing. But it was harder than I expected. Even though I knew what was right and wrong, I still made mistakes because I wasn't paying enough attention. I figured out that just understanding that it was important to be good was not enough to stop us from making mistakes. We have to break bad habits and form good habits if we want to be consistent in doing what is right.
	- These names of virtues, with their precepts, were:
	  
	  1.  Temperance. Eat not to dullness; drink not to elevation.
	  2.  Silence. Speak not but what may benefit others or yourself; avoid trifling conversation.
	  3.  Order. Let all your things have their places; let each part of your business have its time.
	  4.  Resolution. Resolve to perform what you ought; perform without fail what you resolve.
	  5.  Frugality. Make no expense but to do good to others or yourself; i.e., waste nothing.
	  6.  Industry. Lose no time; be always employed in something useful; cut off all unnecessary actions.
	  7.  Sincerity. Use no hurtful deceit; think innocently and justly; and, if you speak, speak accordingly.
	  8.  Justice. Wrong none by doing injuries or omitting the benefits that are your duty.
	  9.  Moderation. Avoid extremes; forbear resenting injuries so much as you think they deserve.
	  10.  Cleanliness. Tolerate no uncleanliness in body, clothes, or habitation.
	  11.  Tranquillity. Be not disturbed at trifles, or at accidents common or unavoidable.
	  12.  Chastity.
	  13.  Humility. Imitate Jesus and Socrates. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp6q6sbfv1gfqg4qtzzf6ns))
		- **Note**: This document is an autobiography in which the author outlines thirteen virtues and related precepts. The virtues include temperance, silence, order, resolution, frugality, industry, sincerity, justice, moderation, cleanliness, tranquillity, chastity, and humility. Each virtue has its own precept that the author intends to live by.
	- **My intention being to acquire the habitude of all these virtues, I judged it would be well not to distract my attention by attempting the whole at once, but to fix it on one of them at a time; and, when I should be master of that, then to proceed to another, and so on, till I should have gone through the thirteen; and, as the previous acquisition of some might facilitate the acquisition of certain others, I arranged them with that view as they stand above.** Temperance first, as it tends to procure that coolness and clearness of head which is so necessary where constant vigilance was to be kept up, and guard maintained against the unremitting attraction of ancient habits and the force of perpetual temptations. This being acquired and established, Silence would be more easy; **and, like him who, having a garden to weed, does not attempt to eradicate all the bad herbs at once, which would exceed his reach and his strength, but works on one of the beds at a time, and, having accomplished the first, proceeds to a second, so I should have, I hoped, the encouraging pleasure of seeing on my pages the progress I made in virtue, by clearing successively my lines of their spots, till in the end, by a number of courses, I should be happy in viewing a clean book, after a thirteen-weeks' daily examination. I entered upon the execution of this plan for self-examination, and continued it, with occasional intermissions, for some time. I was surprised to find myself so much fuller of faults than I had imagined; but I had the satisfaction of seeing them diminish.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp6qzq87xa10eygjj9pgepn))
		- **Note**: I wanted to learn all the virtues, but I knew I couldn't do it all at once. So I decided to focus on one at a time, and when I was good at that one, I would move on to the next. I put them in the order that would make it easier to learn them. I started with Temperance, because it helps you stay focused and not be tempted by bad habits. Once I had that down, I thought it would be easier to learn the next virtue, like a gardener who doesn't try to pull out all the weeds at once, but works on one bed at a time. I kept track of my progress in my book and each week I could see my faults getting fewer and fewer.
	- I did not, however, aim at gaining his favor by paying any servile respect to him, but, after some time, took this other method. Having heard that he had in his library a certain very scarce and curious book, I wrote a note to him, expressing my desire of perusing that book, and requesting he would do me the favor of lending it to me for a few days. He sent it immediately, and I returned it in about a week with another note, expressing strongly my sense of the favor. When we next met in the House, he spoke to me (which he had never done before), and with great civility; and he ever after manifested a readiness to serve me on all occasions, so that we became great friends, and our friendship continued to his death. This is another instance of the truth of an old maxim I had learned, which says: "He that has once done you a kindness will be more ready to do you another than he whom you yourself have obliged." And it shows how much more profitable it is prudently to remove, than to resent, return, and continue, inimical proceedings. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp6vy78e1x04wxhzj8kdkj2))
		- **Note**: I wanted to be friends with someone, but I didn't want to act like I was trying too hard. So, I asked him if I could borrow a special book from his library. He said yes and gave it to me. After I returned the book, we talked for the first time and he was very nice to me. From then on, he was always ready to help me with anything and we became really good friends. This proves that it's better to be nice to people than to be mean.
	- Wealth is not his that has it, but his that enjoys it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp6x4d2pz8ehpmwyfhvzfh7))
		- **Tags**: #[[wealth]]
		- **Note**: Wealth not who has it ⚜️
		  but who enjoys it, that's true wealth 🤑
		  enjoy life's simple things 🌻