title:: Be Relevant, or Get Downturned (highlights)
author:: [[Equity]]
full-title:: "Be Relevant, or Get Downturned"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/6da2c6f5-e7e5-4a18-a5b6-f058e208f7c3

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 4th, 2023]]
	- How Do You Evaluate New Investments?
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* One of the main criteria that investors look for when evaluating a new investment is the founder's market fit and product fit., * The founders of successful companies have a strategic mindset and know their market well.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Yeah, one of the things I meant to mention earlier is you've been in this industry for two decades. You've seen a lot of cycles, you were named to the Forbes Midas List 10 consecutive years from 2013 to 2022, most recently ranking number six. You've invested in 18 unicorns, including a firm, Airbnb, Coinbase and Divvy Homes. I'm just curious when you're evaluating new investments after all that you've seen and experienced over the years, what are some of the main criteria that you look for or what is the some of the main criteria that you use in terms of evaluating whether or not you want to invest in a company at this stage?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeah, I'm done with two decades. I've seen some successes that I've seen in the last 10 years. It still comes down to the founders in the market. It's a view back from a horse or a track or a jockey. Well, over and over the track, the 10th term has probably all come you can be. And within that, you have developed a thesis to figure out what area of a sector the time will be much bigger than is now over the next five or 10 years. And we try to go and simply invest early to try to have a long term perspective. And if these much further down, you know, for the 10 year window as much as possible, despite of the short term volatilities. And at the same time, we also try to go think about the founder and the team that he or she is building. It's the best founders, all the ones that have that and just know their product or their customer extremely well. And know that what's the right hook they can have the attention of their initial customer. And they try to make us customers. They don't try to overdo it from early on, they're going to do everything. But if folks are one thing I can do for this group of customers, so they don't just whiten me but I love the Brian Chesky's sort of saying about parafies here. Yeah, it's much better that a thousand people love you than a million people like you and knowing you. And the level intensity of interaction of the thousand ten thousand who love you are so important because you turn them into evangelists or the property of building where it's enterprise portal soon. And spending time interviewing on that until you have that thousand ten thousand customers which absolutely love you. And that is a very hard thing to do and it's easy for you to put money on growth and see local users sign up today. And that's an easier match to get people around and excited but not as well lasting. So we look for founders who are being feed strategically and operate locally and systematically and have leadership ability to around you and build a team around you. If you have that strategic thinking, that short term focus on operation excellence every single day and have a vision of all of you directly with work with you. Those are three most important ways that we see in a founder. Obviously, the underwriting sort of thing underneath all that, there's someone who has sort of learning mindset. They don't have to learn from their own mistakes. They learn from other people's mistakes to be able to get a rate and improve. And the two people kind of online, we've been buying these four elements extremely well. One is a Francesca from Airbnb. The other one is Max left-hand phone for both of them are. And the special in their own way, Max is like the perfect FinTech founder, extremely strategic, extremely thoughtful and be able to build a team around him that then folks on execution, well, a visual component product and the strategy. And Brian Chesky has a charm in the vision to get people to want to be a part of his mission to make people's experiences around the world much more familiar and before it. So both the founders are different, but they both know their market and across the direction you well. So both have some kind of a founder market fit and a product fit. And that's what's interesting about making phones like that and what it would be, just watching them be part of their vision. ([Time 0:18:06](https://share.snipd.com/snip/06b24755-e8b5-4f71-99bc-6d9ede668920))