title:: Blogs and Platforms and Permission (highlights)
author:: [[Akimbo: A Podcast from Seth Godin]]
full-title:: "Blogs and Platforms and Permission"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/5db2daf5-cc49-46af-b908-068e776461e3

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- How to Win When Someone Searches for You 
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* You cannot trust that your needle will be found in the haystack, and you cannot rely on generic words to get you noticed., * You need to engage with people in a way that makes them want to share your content with others., * You need to make sure that your content is specific and relevant to the people who are looking for it.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  And I think the key insight is this, you cannot trust that your needle is going to get found in the haystack. You cannot trust that any generic word, the word you seek to own, but your shop, shoe store, pick whichever one you want, is going to end up with you on top. And if you're not on top, if you're number 20 or number 50 or number 100, you might as well be invisible. The alternative is to win when someone searches for you. So if you look for Seth, you'll find me. If you look for Seth Godin, you'll definitely find me. If you look for Newton running shoes, you'll find the people that make Newton running shoes. So the game goes from, how do I persuade Google to find me when someone is looking for the generic, to how do I persuade the public to look for the specific? And so as we enter this post-Google age, where clearly there's room for more than one winner for every noun, how do we have a chance to change the culture? And the answer is this. The answer is change the people you engage with so much that they want to tell other people. Have them want to tell other people in this specific, not in the general. You may have heard me talk about one of my favorite examples, the Poulan Bakery in Paris, run by Apollonia Poulan, the daughter of the late Lionel. This bakery is extraordinary. Lines out the door, a premium product enjoyed at most of the fine restaurants in Paris. If you search for Bakery, you will not find it, not easily. But if you search for Poulan, P-O-I-L-A-N-E, there it is, right up top where it belongs. So that's the mission. The mission is to write things, create things, post things, engage with things that people choose to share. To earn the permission of people they share them with, the permission to follow up, the permission to teach, the permission to engage, and then share some more, and then teach some more. And do it in a way that people will share it again. And then people will share it again. And then people will share it again. Each time earning you more permission. Because trusting the middleman on the internet, that's a dangerous game. That if you are building your content on LinkedIn or building your content on Facebook, you're sharecropping. That you are working for a landlord that does not care about you. That has no contractual obligation to keep their word. That at any time they can say, oh, you know all those people you have permission to talk to, your followers, your friends? We're going to start charging you money to reach them. Want to boost this post? That's a lousy deal. That's what we have to figure out how to do. Is engage with a platform that has an obligation to us. That was my relationship with TypePad. And I'm super grateful that in the 16 years I was on their platform, they kept their end of the bargain. I happily paid them whatever it was, $20 a month. Because that money was repaid to me again and again by a third party that had my interests at heart. A site that was up almost all the time. It worked because I was paying for it. I wasn't the product. I was the customer. And my job on that platform was to be a teacher. My job on that platform was to teach. Was to make it easy for people to find me if they were looking for me. Not looking for the generic, but looking for the specific. And then to earn their attention and trust and to keep a promise. ([Time 0:13:22](https://share.snipd.com/snip/68aea571-2dd6-489a-868f-748629bc0b56))