title:: Bottleneck #03: Product v Engineering (highlights)
author:: [[Kennedy Collins]]
full-title:: "Bottleneck \#03: Product v Engineering"
category:: #articles
url:: https://martinfowler.com/articles/bottlenecks-of-scaleups/03-product-v-engineering.html
document_note:: The key to successful startups is close collaboration between product and engineering teams. However, in scaleups, these teams are often separated and finger-pointing between functions is common. Friction between product and engineering can lead to an imbalanced investment mix and slow down product growth. To prevent this, executives must clearly communicate the value that their organization provides, and pool multidisciplinary teams together around value streams. Leaders must be aligned on roles and responsibilities, and teams must negotiate a balanced investment mix. Working agreements between cross-functional teams and leaders can help with this, as well as reinforcing the idea that everyone is on the same team.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Mar 6th, 2023]]
	- Well-run startups are already working in cross-functional product teams. Some functions will naturally work well together because they fall under the same vertical hierarchy. An example would be development and testing — well integrated in startups, but often siloed in traditional enterprise IT. However, in the scaleups we work with, we find that product and technical teams are quite separated. This happens when employees align more with their function in an [Activity Oriented](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ActivityOriented.html) organization rather than with an [Outcome Oriented](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/OutcomeOriented.html) team, and it happens at every level: Product managers are not aligned with tech leads and engineering managers; directors not aligned with directors; VPs not aligned with VPs; CTOs not aligned with CPOs.
	  
	  Ultimately, the bottleneck will be felt by reduced organizational performance as it chokes the creation of customer and business value. Startups will see it manifest in organizational tension, disruptive exceptions, unchecked technical debt, and velocity loss. Fortunately, there are some key signs to look for that indicate friction between your product and engineering organizations. In this article we will describe these signs, as well as solutions to lower the communication barriers, build a balanced investment portfolio, maximize return on investment, and minimize risk over the long term. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtdgrfyf6km9ekgfeksv63wj))
		- **Note**: The key to successful startups is close collaboration between product and engineering teams. However, in scaleups, these teams are often separated, leading to friction and an imbalanced investment mix. To avoid this, executives must clearly articulate their value proposition, form multidisciplinary stream-aligned teams, and have established sensible defaults to guide less mature teams. Product and engineering teams should be empowered and autonomous, and executives should negotiate a balanced product investment mix. Finally, they should reinforce the "first team" mentality and ensure everyone knows how they create value for the business.
	- At its most basic, a product team is a group of individuals who come together in a joint action around a common goal to create business and customer value. Each team contributes to that value creation in their own unique way or with their unique scope. As leaders, it’s important to identify and reinforce a team dynamic around the creation of value rather than an organizational reporting structure. This cross-functional product team becomes a team member’s “first team”. As a leader, when you define your team as your group of direct reports, you are enabling a tribal concept that contributes to an “us vs. them” dynamic. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtdhmrgzxc8zk08wg0jhqcnf))
	- Collaboration happens when teams actively try to understand each other and openly seek and provide input while working. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtbv79ntzvrkd0kws0zzsykx))
	- Changing an organization’s culture when it isn’t delivering the desired results is hard. Many books have been written on the subject. By defining and communicating the expected behaviors of your teams and their respective team members up front, you set the underlying tone for the culture you are striving to create.
	  
	  •   Leaders should set a principle and expectation of a blameless culture. When something goes wrong, it’s a wonderful learning opportunity, to be studied and used to continuously improve. An example of this is the concept of a blameless post-mortem.
	  •   Set expectations and regularly inspect adoption of desired behaviors. Hold team members accountable to these behaviors and refuse to tolerate exceptions.
	  •   Orient “team” constructs around value streams instead of functions. Differentiate “teams” as groups who deliver common value from Communities of Practices or Centers of Excellence which are typically formed to deepen or deliver specific competencies such as Product Management or Quality Assurance.
	  •   Acknowledge that some personality types are less compatible than others. Shift talented people around to find the optimal team synergy. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtbva5qr7a7gryqv79hp1rw1))
		- **Tags**: #[[leadership]]
		- **Note**: In order to create successful startups, there must be close collaboration between product and engineering. However, in the scaleups we work with, there is often a lack of communication and collaboration between these two departments. This can lead to finger pointing, having product leaders treat engineering teams as feature factories, and an imbalanced investment mix. To eliminate this source of friction, executives must clearly articulate and disseminate the organization's value proposition and create multidisciplinary stream-aligned teams. Negotiating a balanced product investment mix and reinforcing the idea of the "first team" are also important strategies to prevent or resolve friction between product and engineering organizations.
	- Team working agreements frequently contain:
	  
	  •   Team Name: What is the unique identifier for the team?
	  •   Team Mission: Why does this specific team exist? What value is it expected to deliver?
	  •   Team Metrics: How will the team measure success? Include value creation metrics, not just activity metrics.
	  •   Team Responsibilities: What work needs to be done to ensure success and which team members are agreeing to own those work items? *Organizations can seed this work with typical activities and recommendations for team responsibility allocations, but team members are free to renegotiate amongst themselves.*
	  •   Team Skills: What skills are needed on this particular team to ensure success?
	  •   Team Norms: Guidelines, principles, ceremonies, and/or sensible defaults for team members to align on how team members are expected to behave, interact, and make decisions. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtbv8ehfpx45cdfe9spb00d8))
	- Productive negotiation depends on transparency, the ability to share detailed information, and the desire to see the situation from the other person’s perspective. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtbv90z2sfk9jybh0xbxz40s))
	- We have identified a few key strategies to consider when preventing or resolving friction between your Product and Engineering organizations:
	  
	  •   **Reinforce the “First Team”:** Functional organizations are good for developing skilled players, but regardless of role, everyone that is delivering the same business or customer value is on the same team.
	  •   **Define and communicate your value proposition:** Ensure that every Product Team member knows how they create value for your business and its customers. It’s the only way to have intrinsically motivated teams.
	  •   **Create multidisciplinary stream-aligned teams:** Form end-to-end Product Teams with every skill and capability needed to create and deliver measurable value. Ensure that they are fully resourced at all times.
	  •   **Establish team working agreements at all levels:** Within a lightweight governance framework, allow Product Teams and functional leaders to self negotiate and align on roles and responsibilities. Constantly reevaluate and adjust until balance and stasis is achieved.
	  •   **Negotiate a balanced product investment mix:** A successful Product Team is one that delivers a stable, secure and scalable feature-laden product. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtbv9e105bsktx9p34w43ckc))