title:: Building Your Product Strategy Stack | Ravi Mehta (highlights)
author:: [[Lenny's Podcast: Product | Growth | Career]]
full-title:: "Building Your Product Strategy Stack | Ravi Mehta"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/0be9dc7f-22d0-46f6-9556-a8c94b97d0ff

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 29th, 2023]]
	- Vision and Mission?
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Vision and mission are related, but they are not the same thing., * The vision should be clear and concise, and it should be in line with the company's mission.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  One is, interestingly, vision doesn't come up in the stack. Does it roll into one of these or do you just like no vision necessary?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I think about vision as part of mission. Cool. I think it's a bit confused about what the difference is between vision and mission. And so when I was originally working on this, there was a version of this that had the mission and the vision together. There were versions that kept it separate. Often what I've heard of as the distinction is the vision is sort of the vision that the company sees for the future. And then the mission is the mission that the company has in light of that vision. And I think you can really bring those two together. You can both describe that world and the role that the company plays in a single statement. And that's usually enough to make progress and help to start to define the strategy. Cool. ([Time 0:22:06](https://share.snipd.com/snip/4390c3fb-5fc4-4fa6-99ec-b5f4d7b0993a))
- New highlights added [[Feb 28th, 2023]] at 9:35 PM
	- Product Strategy Stack
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* The goal of the product strategy stack is to help people take a set of terms that are normally conflated together like goals, roadmap, strategy and separate them into really clearly defined parts., * The product strategy is the connective tissue between what is the company trying to accomplish and what are the dayto-day things that the product team is doing., * If you're having trouble meeting your goals, it might be because the roadmap isn't set up so that it can help move those goals forward. If the roadmap isn't right, it might be because the product strategy hasn't been really clearly articulated. If the product strategy isn't right, it might be because the team doesn't understand deeply enough what the company strategy is, how the product fits into it, and ultimately the company's mission that is trying to make progress on.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  So starting with product strategy. Every PM, every founder, every leader would say that they want to get better at strategy. Like I guarantee if I ask every PM, do you want to get better product strategy? 100% would say absolutely. But it's this very mushy, big general idea of strategy. I'm going to get better at strategy. I'm going to be better. I'm going to be more strategic. You have this really cool framework mental model that you call the product strategy stack. And so I want to spend a little time on just talking about what is this concept and how does it help you think about strategy, mission, vision, all these things and how these things play together. So let's just start with what is the product strategy stack?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  The goal of the product strategy stack is to help people take a set of terms that are normally conflated together like goals, roadmap, strategy and separate them into really clearly defined parts. And the reason I first started using this concept is I would often have PMs come to me and they wouldn't know whether to decide between doing A or B. So it might be that there's two features. They're roughly the same opportunity size. And they wouldn't know whether or not they should execute the first feature or execute the second feature. And more often than not, when I talked to teams and helped to debug that issue, what it came down to was that there wasn't a deep enough understanding of what the strategy is. So what is the framework that should actually inform that prioritization? And so oftentimes I was seeing difficulty prioritizing as well as tactical issues surface in the day to day and be able to be tracked back to pretty fundamental gaps in terms of an individual PMs understanding of strategy. And oftentimes those gaps were not just because the person might not understand the strategy, it may also be because the strategy hasn't been completely defined. And so the problem strategy stack is a system that helps people understand what framework they're using in order to make decisions and what's going to drive value for the business. So the top of the stack is the company mission and the company mission is the change the company wants to bring to the world. It's really a qualitative aspirational statement of what is the company's purpose. And in some cases it might not be a company, it might be a particular team within a company or it might be a particular subsidiary depending on the environment you're in. But it's basically the overarching mission that helps to guide the process of moving forward. The second thing is strategy. So whereas a mission is aspirational strategy is rigorously logical. The strategy is the logical plan that your company is going to use to bring that mission into being. And so it's got to be very specific, it's got to be very rigorous, and it's basically the approach or the plan that the company will use to make progress on achieving its mission. And so the mission and the strategy at the company level really define what is the company trying to accomplish. And so the next level of the strategy stack is the product strategy. And the product strategy is the connective tissue between what is the company trying to accomplish and what are the day-to-day things that the product team is doing. And so underneath the product strategy, the product strategy informs a roadmap and the roadmap ultimately informs the goals. And so there's five pieces. The company mission, the company strategy, the product strategy, the product roadmap, and the product goals all work together as a system where if a PM is looking to define strategy, they can work top to bottom. And if they're looking to debug strategy, they can actually work bottom to top. And so if you're having trouble meeting your goals, it might be because the roadmap isn't set up so that it can help move those goals forward. If the roadmap isn't right, it might be because the product strategy hasn't been really clearly articulated. If the product strategy isn't right, it might be because the team doesn't understand deeply enough what the company strategy is, how the product fits into it, and ultimately the company's mission that is trying to make progress on. ([Time 0:18:05](https://share.snipd.com/snip/aaaa060b-3fb7-4380-87c1-623e7c461873))