title:: Build: An Unorthodox Guide to Making Things Worth Making (highlights)
author:: [[Tony Fadell]]
full-title:: "Build: An Unorthodox Guide to Making Things Worth Making"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/build/
document_note:: This book is a guide on how to build products that customers want and will use. It covers the customer journey, marketing, and support that must be in place to move customers along the journey. It also covers how to prototype the entire experience and how to write press releases. It emphasizes the importance of understanding why customers need the product, sharing why experiences can be better, and creating a relationship-driven sales culture. It provides advice on how to create a team heartbeat, product heartbeat, and company heartbeat, and how to outsource problems. Overall, the book provides practical advice on how to make things worth making.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- Each phase of the journey has to be great to move customers onto the next step. There are bumps between awareness and acquisition, onboarding and usage that you have to help customers overcome. In each of these moments, the customers asks why? Why should I care? Buy? Use it? Stick with it? Your product, marketing, and support have to remove friction and continuously communicate the why. To do this right, you have to prototype the whole experience. Draw pictures, make models, create mood boards, create a rough outline in wireframes, write imaginary press releases, create mock-ups of how the customer would move from the ad to the store to buying it. Write up the reactions you want, the headlines you want to see from reviewers, the emotions you want to elicit. Bring it to life. Get it out of your head. Map out the whole journey as you map out what your product will do. You should prototype your marketing far before you have a product to market ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1bpmndd384hdgpvxj1whg1))
		- **Note**: This document outlines the importance of prototyping the customer journey in order to build something worth making. It suggests that every step of the customer journey should be great to move customers on to the next, and that product, marketing, and support should remove friction and communicate why customers should care, buy, use it, and stick with it. It advises to prototype the entire experience by drawing pictures, making models, creating mood boards, wireframes, mock-ups and press releases, in order to bring the vision to life and map out the journey.
	- Don’t tell me what’s so different about your product, tell me what’s different about the user journey ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1bpdy88wpgveaesx3jefhs))
	- Write a press release containing only the essentials of things that people get excited about and use. Even if you have to pivot, that’s ok. Rewrite the press release. Do it again and again ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1bpymdrxc2q2wzd45ckysh))