title:: ChatGPT’s Alter Ego and Moderating AI-generated Content | E1677 (highlights)
author:: [[This Week in Startups]]
full-title:: "ChatGPT’s Alter Ego and Moderating AI-generated Content | E1677"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/ff1956b7-f4ad-453d-881e-dde1d7bf3f0d

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- The dangers and benefits of a filtered ChatGPT 
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* There is a lack of transparency around the filters used in chatbots, which leads to concerns about their potential misuse., * The filters should be explained to people in a transparent way, in order to mitigate these concerns.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Now, backing all the way up, I 100% agree with you, a million percent agree with you about the transparency. Like, that's what we should know. Is there a monitor? What is the filter? What is the level of filter that's going to happen? Because the truth is we're probably going to want a filter because we know that when Microsoft introduced a chatbot without a filter, then what you do is you use this thing to be like, write me a poem to horrifically harass everybody at my school. You know, like, sure, right? Just write the language I need to go after all the Chinese people who I think created the virus. Sure. And it will be happy to. So like, I understand why there's a filter. I also think you're 100% correct that all of the filtering needs to be explained to people in the most honest way possible because we can handle that in theory. If we have gotten to the point where we reject the concept as a filter and I worry that we have that we're to the point where it's like, if someone's like, no, this thing does need to have safeguards around it because it will be used to harass people. It will be used to present child pornography. It will be it will accidentally, you know, surface unbelievably horrific material. Yeah. But we are now to the point in this conversation where even if I say that somebody is going to tell me I'm pro censorship and I'm too woke. So we're like not even having an honest conversation about why filters may be necessary. Yeah. I mean, it's compounded by the lack of transparency. And by the way, all of that is times just goes to 11 when you realize how much money can be made here.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  So we're rushing it out the door before it's ready and before we can be honest about what's in it, which is even more reason where like if you did the search and you're like, hey, tell me all the reasons, you know, let's go with race as an issue. Tell me, give me a ranking of the smartest, stupidest people by race. Totally. Okay. So we have the classic bell curve, you know, third rail of content, right? Give me all the eugenics. Give me that. Yeah. I mean, if you give every population on the planet, an IQ test that was made in the United States or an IQ test that was made in Japan or Russia, whatever, and then you layered across the United States, there's going to be populations that come up on the bottom of that IQ test because it was done in Russia or in North Korea or wherever Australia. And then Australia is suddenly going to be number one because it was their test. So but if you were to ask it that and then it gave you back the raw answer, the filtered answer, or here's five different filtered answers. And it just showed you the answers. This is what our technology actually thinks, thinks in quotes. This is what it comes up with without a filter on it. Yeah. Okay. How did you possibly come up with that? That this group is smarter than that group is what? Okay. And then this is the one that we've trained to say, Hey, by the way, if you bring up intelligent tests, we need to start with, Hey, here is almost like with a COVID labels, some sort of labeling, we shouldn't understand that that label's been created. Who created it? Who created? Who's name is on it? Is this a chat GPT label about IQ tests and IQ variants between populations? Or is it a Harvard label? Is it a? Where did the label come from? Is it one developer who's at chat GPT, who's believes actually there's IQ differences, and they want to lean it that way to be like, you know, cause they're racist? Or is it somebody who's intellectually honest and could say, Hey, here's the consensus. Yeah. IQ tests are imperfect because they have cultural references in it. ([Time 0:33:02](https://share.snipd.com/snip/dc450f36-45a2-4f25-984c-6845d40c50a7))