title:: Christopher Alexander, Murray Silverstein, and Sara Ishikawa (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Christopher Alexander, Murray Silverstein, and Sara Ishikawa"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/a-pattern-language/
document_note:: Christopher Alexander, Murray Silverstein, and Sara Ishikawa's book "A Pattern Language" outlines a new attitude to architecture and planning that encourages people to design their own homes, streets, and communities. The language consists of 253 patterns that can be used to create buildings and other environments in a way that is never done the same way twice. These patterns must be compressed as much as possible to create the most affordable and effective environment. There is also an emphasis on self-organization and emergence, and on institutions that give people access to knowledge without credentials or pedigree. Ultimately, the goal is to create perfect environments, from entire towns down to individual rooms.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- Finally, a note of caution. This language, like English, can be a medium for prose, or a medium for poetry. The difference between prose and poetry is not that different languages are used, but that the same language is used, differently. In an ordinary English sentence, each word has one meaning, and the sentence too, has one simple meaning. In a poem, the meaning is far more dense. Each word carries several meanings; and the sentence as a whole carries an enormous density of interlocking meanings, which together illuminate the whole. The same is true for pattern languages. It is possible to make buildings by stringing together patterns, in a rather loose way. A building made like this is, an assembly of patterns. It is not dense. It is not profound. But it is also possible to put patterns together in such a way that many many patterns overlap in the same physical space: the building is very dense; it has many meanings captured in a small space; and through this density, it becomes profound...All 253 patterns together form a language ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7gwaj64kben2dqykxamz9))
		- **Note**: The same way that English can be used to write both prose and poetry, the same can be done with a pattern language. When you write in prose with English, each word has one meaning and the sentence has one simple meaning. But in poetry, each word carries several meanings and the sentence as a whole carries an enormous amount of meanings that all fit together. Similarly, with a pattern language, you can make buildings by putting together patterns in a simple way, and this creates a building with a few patterns in it. But you can also put patterns together in a way that many of them overlap in the same physical space. This creates a building that is very dense and has lots of meanings in it. All of the 253 patterns together create a language.
	- University as a marketplace - concentrated, cloistered universities with closed administration policies and rigid procedures which dictate who may teach a course, kill opportunities for learning ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7jdhn4tscks2y28ztzqeh))
	- Connected play - if children don't play enough with other children during the first 5 years of life, there is a great chance that they will not have normal social lives moving forward ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7jhykff0r9jrmhjxtbgb2))
	- Positive outdoor space - purposefully designed and not simply what is left over after the building is constructed. Like yin and yang, indoor and outdoor space must always get their shape together ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7m1m0wgvwbd1efzts2wnw))
	- •   **Schools are designed on the assumption that there is a secret to know everything in life; the quality of life depends on knowing that secret; that secrets can be known only in orderly successions; and that only teachers can properly reveal these secrets. An individual with a schooled mind conceives of the world as a pyramid of classified packages accessible only to those who carry the proper tags. New educational institutions would break apart this pyramid. Their purpose must be to facilitate access for the learner: to allow him to look into the windows of the control room or the parliament, if he cannot get in the door. Moreover, such new institutions should be channels to which the learner would have access without credentials or pedigree - public spaces in which peers and elders outside his immediate** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7jxka0hbzjt6axspkgqs6))
		- **Note**: Schools are designed as if there is a special secret that can only be taught by teachers. People with schooled minds think of the world as a pyramid with secrets that can only be accessed by certain people. New schools should be places where everyone can learn, even if they don't have special permission. Everyone should have the chance to look into the windows of important places, even if they can't go inside.