title:: Competing Against Luck: The Story of Innovation and Customer Choice (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Competing Against Luck: The Story of Innovation and Customer Choice"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/competing-against-luck/
document_note:: Competing Against Luck: The Story of Innovation and Customer Choice by Clayton Christensen helps readers better understand why customers behave the way they do and how to make decisions that are not reliant on luck. It provides an understanding of the "Jobs Theory" which posits that customers hire products to make progress, hiring them to do a job, and that understanding the job and how to best solve it is the fundamental driver of innovation success. The book provides insights into how to think through and understand customer decision making, how to observe customers and use that data to create better products and services, as well as how to create experiences to fit the job perfectly and be protected from competitors. It also explains how to focus on what is important and how to measure effectiveness rather than just efficiency. Ultimately, it provides readers with a framework to better understand customer needs and how to best serve them.
tags:: #[[jobs to be done]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- The better question to ask is, “what job did you hire that product to do?” This change in perspective helps clear up what your customers truly want. Most of the focus is on customers and the products themselves and not how well the product is truly solving the job that the customer wants. This helps us understand the why of customer behavior, providing the fundamental driver of innovation success ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4mj8va3ksgvwa7a2x12ve))
		- **Note**: This document discusses the importance of understanding why customers behave the way they do in order to create successful innovations. It suggests shifting the focus away from the customers and products themselves, and instead focusing on the job that the product was hired to do. This change in perspective helps to understand the reasons behind customer behavior and provides the foundation for successful innovation.
	- Customers hire a product to make progress, the job they’re trying to get done and the product/service solves these jobs. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4nd619972me3ad7tkg8e4))
	- Jobs Theory also take into account circumstances, people's values, emotional and social needs, and more. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4ng0n9ybsc2he0jz86xsg))
	- Never fall in love with your solution to the job, always try to find way to better understand the job and how to best solve it. These questions and lens will help you more accurately define who your competition truly is. For example, Netflix competes with every form of leisure including a bottle of wine and sleep ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4nt25n4w7qbwdq2d5j00e))
	- Jobs Theory is an integration mechanism allowing you to create a full narrative and to focus on the right type of complexity. The priorities and trade-offs of customers may totally change with this lens and it’ll get you to focus on what’s truly important the why of customer decision making ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4p4c1sdbs97hpz3djwd2c))
	- You have to think through and understand what other product/service/behavior is being "fired" or what you are replacing, in order to better understand where your product fits and what job it is truly doing for you and your customer ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4pb7kvv3ge6rksph02667))
	- Two important forces that are very rarely considered are habits (the fact that people are comfortable with something that tends to be good enough) and anxiety of choosing a new product ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4qbp474detpwqb55d8d10))
		- **Note**: This document discusses two forces that are often overlooked when considering innovation and customer choice: habits and the anxiety associated with choosing a new product. Habits can lead people to stay with something that is familiar, even if it is not the best option, while anxiety can prevent customers from choosing something new.
	- Customers are infamously bad at knowing what they want but they can tell you very quickly and accurately where they struggle ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4pjy60ar7dbgvbvp0smya))
		- **Note**: This text from the document "Competing Against Luck: The Story of Innovation and Customer Choice" suggests that customers may not be able to clearly articulate what they want in a product or service, but they are able to quickly and accurately communicate where they are struggling with a product or service.
	- When a product commands high market share and has high pricing power, it is rarely the product itself which is amazing. The overall experience fits the job so perfectly that they’re hard to copy or replace. Creating experiences around this job almost inoculate you to competitors. You must understand the job, the set of experiences around the job that you need to create, and integrating around the job are critical. Helping the customer make progress, incorporating the functional/social/emotional aspects, and aligning experiences and the job ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4rgcayqnv2j2w012r1ykk))
	- Because it is so much easier to measure efficiency than effectiveness, that's what most organizations optimize towards. It is hard but necessary to keep top of mind what is important (whether easy to measure or not) and work towards that ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4s1192zcrgsqneddzse4r))
	- Beware the fallacy of “data is always objective”. Data is man made and fallible ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm4rqqr328f58wcqvzyng5n))