title:: Crossing the Chasm (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Crossing the Chasm"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/crossing-the-chasm/
document_note:: Crossing the Chasm is a book that provides insight into the process of making the transition from an early market to a mainstream market in high-tech industries. It focuses on the need to bridge the gap between two distinct markets and the importance of focusing on relationships rather than product alone when marketing a new technology. It outlines the process of marketing a high-tech product by working through the Technology Adoption Life Cycle, and stresses the importance of creating competition, targeting a specific niche market, and making the product easy to buy in order to successfully bridge the chasm and move into the mainstream market.
tags:: #[[innovation]] #[[technology]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- It is only natural to cling to the past when the past represents so much of what we have strived to achieve. This is the key to Crossing the Chasm. The chasm represents the gulf between two distinct marketplaces for technology products—the first, an early market dominated by early adopters and insiders who are quick to appreciate the nature and benefits of the new development, and the second a mainstream market representing “the rest of us,” people who want the benefits of new technology but who do not want to “experience” it in all its gory details. The transition between these two markets is anything but smooth. Indeed, what Geoff Moore has brought into focus is that, at the time when one has just achieved great initial success in launching a new technology product, creating what he calls early market wins, one must undertake an immense effort and radical transformation to make the transition into serving the mainstream market. This transition involves sloughing off familiar entrepreneurial marketing habits and taking up new ones that at first feel strangely counterintuitive. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7sffxwd8wgqsnymysv7b2))
		- **Note**: The chasm is like a big gap between two groups of people who use technology. The first group is made up of early adopters who are very familiar with new technology and they understand how it works and its benefits. The second group is made up of people who want the same benefits of new technology, but don't want to figure out all the complicated details. It can be hard to bridge the gap between these two groups, but it's important. To do this, companies have to make a big effort and make changes to their marketing strategies. They need to leave behind their old habits and try new ones that feel strange at first.
	- The fundamental basis of market relations is to build and manage relationships with all the members that make up a high-tech marketplace, not just the most visible ones. In particular, it means setting up formal and informal communications not only with customers, press, and analysts but also with hardware and software partners, distributors, dealers, VARs, systems and integrators, user groups, vertically oriented industry organizations, universities, standards bodies, and international partners. It means improving not only your external communications but also your internal exchange of information among the sales force, the product managers, strategic planners, customer service and support, engineering, manufacturing, and finance.
	  
	  1.  Must see through every stakeholder's eyes and create win-win relationships. This becomes even more complicated with public, high-tech companies given the number of constituents ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7tva7ta9kgcf4q6knny94))
		- **Note**: Crossing the Chasm emphasizes the importance of building and managing relationships with stakeholders in a high-tech marketplace, beyond just customers, press, and analysts. It requires effective internal and external communication in order to create win-win relationships, which is especially difficult for public, high-tech companies due to the number of constituents.
	- To recap the logic of the Technology Adoption Life Cycle, its underlying thesis is that technology is absorbed into any given community in stages corresponding to the psychological and social profiles of various segments within that community. This profile, is in turn, the very foundation of the High-Tech Marketing Model. That model says that the way to develop a high-tech market is to work the curve left to right, focusing first on the innovators, growing that market, then moving on to the early adopters, growing that market, and so on, to the early majority, late majority, and even to the laggards. In this effort, companies must use each “captured” group as a reference base for going on to market to the next group. Thus, the endorsement of innovators becomes an important tool for developing a credible pitch to the early adopters, that of the early adopters to the early majority, and so on. The idea is to keep this process moving smoothly, proceeding something like passing the baton in a relay race or imitating Tarzan swinging from vine to well-placed vine. It is important to maintain momentum in order to create a bandwagon effect that makes it natural for the next group to want to buy in. Too much of a delay and the effect would be something like hanging from a motionless vine—nowhere to go but down. As you can see, the components of the life cycle are unchanged, but between any two psychographic groups has been introduced a gap. This symbolizes the dissociation between the two groups—that is, the difficulty any group will have in accepting a new product if it is presented in the same way as it was to the group to its immediate left. Each of these gaps represents an opportunity for marketing to lose momentum, to miss the transition to the next segment, thereby never to gain the promised land of profit-margin leadership in the middle of the bell curve. The key to winning over this segment is to show that the new technology enables some strategic leap forward, something never before possible, which has an intrinsic value and appeal to the nontechnologist. This benefit is typically symbolized by a single, compelling application, the one thing that best captures the power and value of the new product. If the marketing effort is unable to find that compelling application, then market development stalls with the innovators, and the future of the product falls through the crack. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7vwqq9egfybp9vsv5vj0g))
		- **Note**: Crossing the Chasm is a concept that explains how technology is adopted within a community. It is based on the Technology Adoption Life Cycle, which states that technology is adopted by different segments of a community in stages, according to their psychological and social profiles. Companies must use each group they capture as a reference base to market to the next group. However, between each group is a chasm, representing the difficulty of transitioning from one group to the next and the potential for marketing momentum to be lost. Companies must find a compelling application to demonstrate the value of the new technology and bridge the chasm in order to reach the late majority and laggards and gain profit-margin leadership.
	- It turns out our attitude toward technology adoption becomes significant—at least in a marketing sense—any time we are introduced to products that require us to change our current mode of behavior or to modify other products and services we rely on. In academic terms, such change-sensitive products are called discontinuous innovations. The contrasting term, continuous innovations, refers to the normal upgrading of products that does not require us to change behavior. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7wxmsy8x46rzccebnx0m8))
	- Of course, talking this way about marketing merely throws the burden of definition onto market, which we will define, for the purposes of high tech, as:
	  
	  1.  A set of actual or potential customers
	  2.  For a given set of products or services
	  3.  Who have a common set of needs or wants
	  4.  Who reference each other when making a buying decision. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7xj9mbdxm6yq0n6seb4n5))
	- What the early adopter is buying is some kind of change agent. By being the first to implement this change in their industry, the early adopters expect to get a jump on the competition, whether from lower product costs, faster time to market, more complete customer service, or some other comparable business advantage. They expect a radical discontinuity between the old ways and the new, and they are prepared to champion this cause against entrenched resistance. Being the first, they also are prepared to bear with the inevitable bugs and glitches that accompany any innovation just coming to market. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7xxzh9k92hjhrj54hf6yd))
		- **Note**: Early adopters are looking for something that can help them change the way they do things. By being the first to try a new technology in their industry, they can get an advantage over their competitors. This could be better prices for their products, faster production, or better customer service. They are also willing to put up with any mistakes that come with trying something new.
	- Entering the mainstream market is an act of aggression. The companies who have already established relationships with your target customer will resent your intrusion and do everything they can to shut you out. The customers themselves will be suspicious of you as a new and untried player in their marketplace. No one wants your presence. You are an invader. This is not a time to focus on being nice. As we have already said, the perils of the chasm make this a life-or-death situation for you. You must win entry to the mainstream, despite whatever resistance is posed. That’s it. That’s the strategy. Replicate D Day, and win entry to the mainstream. Cross the chasm by targeting a very specific niche market where you can dominate from the outset, force your competitors out of that market niche, and then use it as a base for broader operations. Concentrate an overwhelmingly superior force on a highly focused target. It worked in 1944 for the Allies, and it has worked since for any number of high-tech companies. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm7z6wxb8s5pbt9j59y1bx0))
		- **Note**: The strategy for crossing the chasm is to target a specific niche market, dominate it, and use it as a base for broader operations. Companies should focus on winning entry to the mainstream, despite any resistance, and replicate the strategy of the Allies on D Day: concentrate an overwhelmingly superior force on a highly focused target.
	- One of the most important lessons about crossing the chasm is that the task ultimately requires achieving an unusual degree of company unity during the crossing period. This is a time when one should forgo the quest for eccentric marketing genius, in favor of achieving an informed consensus among mere mortals. It is a time not for dashing and expensive gestures but rather for careful plans and cautiously rationed resources—a time not to gamble all on some brilliant coup but rather to focus everyone on making as few mistakes as possible. One of the functions of this book, therefore-and perhaps its most important one-is to open up the logic of marketing decision making during this period so that everyone on the management team can participate in the marketing process. If prudence rather than brilliance is to be our guiding principle, then many heads are better than one. If marketing is going to be the driving force-and most organizations insist this is their goal—then its principles must be accessible to all the players, and not, as is sometimes the case, be reserved to an elect few who have managed to penetrate its mysteries. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm809pg2hecnk9p8w8r33sh))
		- **Note**: The most important thing to remember when crossing a chasm is that the entire company must work together. This is not a time to try something flashy or risky. Instead, it's important to make careful plans and not waste resources. This book can help by teaching everyone involved in the process about how to make smart marketing decisions. Everyone should have a chance to understand how to do this, not just a select few people.
	- Segment. Segment. Segment. One of the other benefits of this approach is that it leads directly to you “owning” a market. That is, you get installed by the pragmatists as the leader, and from then on, they conspire to help keep you there. This means that there are significant barriers to entry for any competitors, regardless of their size or the added features they have in their product. Mainstream customers will, to be sure, complain about your lack of features and insist you upgrade to meet the competition. But, in truth, mainstream customers like to be “owned”—it simplifies their buying decisions, improves the quality and lowers the cost of whole product ownership, and provides security that the vendor is here to stay. They demand attention, but they are on your side. As a result, an owned market can take on some of the characteristics of an annuity—a building block in good times, and a place of refuge in bad—with far more predictable revenues and far lower cost of sales than can otherwise be achieved. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm810bj168v6sbmjdgb6vgk))
		- **Note**: This text discusses the benefits of segmenting a market in order to "own" it. Doing so provides barriers to entry for competitors and creates loyalty from mainstream customers who desire consistency and security from their vendor. This ownership of a market can result in more predictable revenue streams and reduced costs of sales.
	- The key to moving beyond one’s initial target niche is to select strategic target market segments to begin with. That is, target a segment that, by virtue of its other connections, creates an entry point into a larger segment. For example, when the Macintosh crossed the chasm, the target niche was the graphics arts department in Fortune 500 companies. This was not a particularly large target market, but it was one that was responsible for a broken, mission-critical process—providing presentations for executives and marketing professionals. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm8206a8wty4e79qrcrhg6e))
	- The niche wins—presuming the beachhead strategy is conducted correctly—by getting a fix for its specialized problem. And the vendor wins because it gets certified by at least one group of pragmatists that its offering is mainstream. So, because of the dynamics of technology adoption, and not because of any niche properties in the product itself, platforms must take a vertical market approach to crossing the chasm even though it seems unnatural. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm823xv1e1d7ey0mm40jh7x))
	- The more serious the problem, the faster the target niche will pull you out of the chasm. Once out, your opportunities to expand into other niches are immensely increased because now, having one set of customers solidly behind you, you are much less risky to back as a new vendor. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm829aj6yshtx119ew1ab9n))
		- **Note**: Crossing the chasm can be difficult, but if you focus on solving a serious problem for a specific target niche, this can help you to be successful and emerge from the chasm. Having customers who support you makes it easier to expand into other niches, as it makes you a less risky vendor.
	- Now, the biggest mistake one can make in this state is to turn to numeric information as a source of refuge or reassurance. You need to understand that informed intuition, rather than analytical reason, is the most trustworthy decision-making tool to use. The key is to understand how intuition—specifically, informed intuition—actually works. Unlike numerical analysis, it does not rely on processing a statistically significant sample of data in order to achieve a given level of confidence. Rather, it involves conclusions based on isolating a few high-quality images—really, data fragments—that it takes to be archetypes of a broader and more complex reality. These images simply stand out from the swarm of mental material that rattles around in our heads. They are the ones that are memorable. So the first rule of working with an image is: If you can’t remember it, don’t try, because it’s not worth it. Or, to put this in the positive form: Only work with memorable images. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsm88bjyrqwk3frc1073gxsq))
		- **Note**: Informed intuition is a better way to make decisions than analytical reason. You need to understand how informed intuition works. It's not like numerical analysis, which involves looking at a lot of data. Instead, you need to pick out a few special images that look important. These images will be easy to remember. If you can't remember an image, don't try to use it - it probably isn't important. Just use the memorable images.
	- •   It is extremely difficult to cross the chasm in consumer market. Almost all successful crossings happen in business markets, where the economic and technical resources can absorb the challenges of an immature product and service offering.
	  •   1.  Scene or situation: Focus on the moment of frustration. What is going on? What is the user about to attempt?
	    2.  Desired outcome: What is the user trying to accomplish? Why is this important?
	    3.  Attempted approach: Without the new product, how does the user go about the task?
	    4.  Interfering factors: What goes wrong? How and why does it go wrong?
	    5.  Economic consequences: So what? What is the impact of the user failing to accomplish the task productively? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmgp3n1hm0hdpa06tacar27))
		- **Tags**: #[[customer research]]
		- **Note**: Crossing the chasm in consumer markets is difficult, but successful crossings often happen in business markets where the resources can handle the challenges of an immature product and service offering. To understand how the chasm is crossed, it is important to focus on the moment of frustration when a user is attempting to accomplish something. The desired outcome and attempted approach must be identified, as well as any interfering factors and the economic consequences of failing.
	- Tactical alliances have one and only one purpose: to accelerate the formation of whole product infrastructure within a specific target market segment. The basic commitment is to codevelop a whole product and market it jointly. This benefits the product manager by ensuring customer satisfaction. It benefits the partner by providing expanded distribution into a hitherto untapped source of sales opportunities. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmggjpvrp6r7n5t3jxmhan4))
	- The fundamental rule of engagement is that any force can defeat any other force—if it can define the battle. If we get to set the turf, if we get to set the competitive criteria for winning, why would we ever lose? The answer, depressingly enough, is because we don’t do it right. Sometimes it is because we misunderstand either our own strengths and weaknesses, or those of our competitors. More often, however, it is because we misinterpret what our target customers really want, or we are afraid to step up to the responsibility of making sure they get it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmgh26dkd1pxgsqgtk1rbpy))
		- **Note**: The basic rule of fighting is that anyone can win if they know what the battle is about. If we get to decide how the battle will be fought, then we should never lose. But sometimes we make mistakes because we don't understand our own abilities or our opponents. Most of the time, though, we don't understand what our customers really want and don't want, or we're too scared to make sure they get what they need.
	- You can keep yourself from making most positioning gaffes if you will simply remember the following principles:
	  
	  1.  Positioning, first and foremost, is a noun, not a verb. That is, it is best understood as an attribute associated with a company or a product, and not as the marketing contortions that people go through to set up that association.
	  2.  Positioning is the single largest influence on the buying decision. It serves as a kind of buyers’ shorthand, shaping not only their final choice but even the way they evaluate alternatives leading up to that choice. In other words, evaluations are often simply rationalizations of preestablished positioning.
	  3.  Positioning exists in people’s heads, not in your words. If you want to talk intelligently about positioning, you must frame a position in words that are likely to actually exist in other people’s heads, and not in words that come straight out of hot advertising copy.
	  4.  People are highly conservative about entertaining changes in positioning. This is just another way of saying that people do not like you messing with the stuff that is inside their heads. In general, the most effective positioning strategies are the ones that demand the least amount of change. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmgjcsg0f8g6z6hvzvkatyy))
		- **Note**: Positioning is a key factor for buyers when making a purchase decision and should be framed in words that are likely to exist in their minds. Positioning is a noun and should not be thought of as marketing contortions. People are generally resistant to changes in positioning and it is best to use strategies that require the least amount of change.
	- So how can we guarantee passing the elevator pitch test? The key is to define your position based on the target segment you intend to dominate and the value proposition you intend to dominate it with. Within this context, you then set forth your competition and the unique differentiation that belongs to you and that you expect to drive the buying decision your way. Here is a proven formula for getting all this down into two short sentences. Try it out on your own company and one of its key products. Just fill in the blanks:
	  
	  1.  For (target customers—beachhead segment only) who are dissatisfied with (the current market alternative), our product is a (new product category) that provides (key problem-solving capability). unlike (the product alternative), we have assembled (key whole product features for your specific application). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmgkdvcbkbnedpbnfgven9n))
		- **Note**: Crossing the Chasm outlines a formula for creating an effective elevator pitch. The formula requires defining a position based on the target segment and value proposition, setting forth the competition, and then explaining the unique differentiation of the product. This should be done in two sentences and the formula provides a structure for doing so.
	- How wide is the chasm? Or, to put this in investment terms, how long will it take before I can achieve a reasonably predictable ROI from an acceptably large mainstream market? The simple answer to this question is, as long as it takes to create and install a sustainable whole product. The chasm model asserts that no mainstream market can occur until the whole product is in place. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmgmgqcbd5qxc91th7xmgwc))
		- **Note**: The chasm is a big gap between two markets--one with people who like to try new things and one with people who want the benefits of new technology but don't want to get too involved in learning about it. It takes time and effort to make a product that appeals to the mainstream market. Without that product, people in the mainstream market won't buy it. It could take a while to make a product that works, but if you do, you can make money from the mainstream market.