title:: Dani Bassett & Perry Zurn on the Neuroscience & Philosophy of Curious Minds (highlights)
author:: [[COMPLEXITY]]
full-title:: "Dani Bassett & Perry Zurn on the Neuroscience & Philosophy of Curious Minds"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/aea5cc0b-97fd-4f7a-bc36-14ff7f220503

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 29th, 2023]]
	- The Resonances of Language
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Language is affect, and Resonances between words in a book create a powerful system of knowledge., * Anything that is communicated, be it spoken or written, has the sounds of other people before it, and is therefore not truly the author's own work.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 3
	  No, I think that's where I was also going to go to think about that section on neurodiversity and the ways in which people put two and two together in really different ways by really different logics and methods. I would also say that, yeah, well, Danny does talk about that we do obviously, we string one word after the other. Our editors would not let us put two words on top of each other, unfortunately, in the book. We probably tried. But there's something so powerful about the written word in that it is a system of resonances. And I think this is especially true of our book, but I think it's true of many, many, many books that you hear in the moment that you hear or read one word, you're also hearing and reading other sections of the book that you've already been through or anticipate. And that that sometimes harmony, sometimes cacophony is part of what it means to be building a knowledge network with authors like us.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Yeah, and maybe just to riff on that a little bit. So Denise Riley is a philosopher and poet at Stanford. And she writes about this notion that those resonances that you hear when you are reading or even when you're writing can hark to not just other spots in that narrative that you're reading, but also to work from other authors or from other time periods or even to people you don't even know. You don't know where you've heard that before or something similar, but it's somewhere deep inside of your mind. And she calls on this notion, argue two things. One that language is affect. It's not just information. And it's partly because of the affect that is constructed by these resonances. But then also anything that we write or anything that we try to communicate, perhaps anything that we speak has the sounds of other people before us. And therefore, are we really ever the authors? Are we really ever the speakers? Or are we always and ever using the words of others and communicating in a way that sort of happens above any of us and not something that can be solidified into a single human?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Absolutely. I mean, that just draws my mind to comments I've heard made by a cum laude about the nonhuman turn and the critique of design thinking, this notion of the author. And this is actually really important right now, because we're watching the paradigm, the contemporary status quo of intellectual property getting completely raked over and it's going through a kind of annealing process right now due to the large learning models in AI. And for instance, the way that stability AI and the various products that depend on it scraped the Leon 5B database, which was billions and billions of websites that were supposedly open for a common crawl. But people were not necessarily aware that their copyrighted artwork had been uploaded to Pinterest. So we're in this precarious position now. We're precisely the concerns that you're expressing here about who is doing the speaking have come into focus in a way that really challenges the assumptions that so many people have inherited about what is and is not part of a creative and intellectual comments. I mean, we straight off the path as far as neuroscience is concerned here. But at the same time, I don't think we would be in this place socially were it not for the ways that neuroscience has revealed to us the modularity of the self and the way that it is enacted through relationships. You know, you speak of indigenous kinship relationships here. We've already talked about that a little bit. So yeah, I'm curious how you see the science informing rigorous ways of handling these immensely delicate social issues at all.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  I mean, I do think a little bit about how the science of curiosity can impact the way that artificial intelligences work in particular, maybe just going back to the very simple idea at the beginning, which is where you may have a artificial system that has been programmed to search for particular kinds of information or to to forage effectively. So to know that there's a particular space to map out the space and then to forage in that space. I think all of that is still very much focused on the content that is present and finding content, which we've already discussed. The placement of content has biases in it already. Instead of, if there is an artificial system that can be constructed that foregrounds making new shapes of connection between ideas, then I think we have the capacity to fill in empty spots of knowledge and also move beyond a focus on the content, which we may or may not understand, may or may not have utility, may or may not be accessible or known to us yet, and instead focus on committing to a diversity of connective styles in the artificial systems. I think that that has potential to really reshape what these systems can do, how that can affect societal injustice. I don't know.
	  
	  Speaker 4
	  That's a separate question. ([Time 0:56:52](https://share.snipd.com/snip/337aac76-7c45-4a39-8641-992cb44dc956))