title:: David Wolpert & Farita Tasnim on the Thermodynamics of Communication (highlights)
author:: [[COMPLEXITY]]
full-title:: "David Wolpert & Farita Tasnim on the Thermodynamics of Communication"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/932f7538-1215-4f57-ae81-a4a3d2a86c97

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Communication Channels - What Are They?
	  
	  Summary:
	  Farita: We do want to understand how, how these quote living systems, and that's a flexible definition, anything from the brain to modern digital computers. The key is that all of these dynamic far from equilibrium systems have limited information about the things that exist in their environment," Farita says. "Communication consumes 35 times more energy than computation in the human brain"
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 3
	  Well, so let's jump in then. There's this piece non-equilibrium thermodynamics of communication channels. Farita, since you're the first author on this paper, why don't you take us from David's context here and tell us a little bit about, this is going to be the, explain it to me like I'm five section of the podcast. This piece is building on work by Claude Shannon and specifically, it focuses on this quantity, the channel capacity. So that seems like a good place to start, if you could, by laying down some of the, just like the core concepts for this paper before we actually drive into the specifics of the way that the two of you are formalizing all of this and the conclusions that you come to.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Yeah. So maybe starting with some motivation. Why, so why are we studying communication channels given everything that David said? We do want to understand how, how these quote living systems, and that's a flexible definition, anything from the brain to modern digital computers to, you know, you could even consider an ecosystem or a financial market potentially as some living system. The key is that all of these dynamic far from equilibrium systems, they have limited information about the things that exist in their environment, the things that they're interacting with, and within themselves, the components that make up these systems have limited information about each other. And therefore, they have to compute some function. They have to be learning something, right? And if we consider that oftentimes these such systems have multiple components, these multiple components are often, all the time continuously shuttling information, but amongst each other in order to compute whatever function it is, they're computing. So if that's the case, well, if we look into the literature also, it's just all throughout the literature that such systems, the highest energy cost comes from the communication that is required between these components, the fact that these components have limited access to information, not only from their environment, but also from each other. We want to try to clarify that. We see that in the brain. There's a paper, I think, in PNAS that came out from Levy and Calvert, you know, with the title, like, communication consumes 35 times more energy than computation in the human brain. And of course, you know, we can argue about semantics and specifics of what is communication and computation, but it is, for example, phenomenologically, has also been observed in the creation of digital computers through like Rents rule, for example, energetic cost scaling with a number of wiring links in a digital computer and in like a CPU and a chip scaling with a number of wiring connections in that computing unit. And this is also one of the main drivers behind the entire field of neuromorphic computing, which is growing hugely. So in traditional computing architectures, you have what's called von Neumann computing, where you have your CPU separated from your memory, whereas what neuromorphic computing is trying to do is to reduce the communication that's required between these two units to have some memory be at the location of the computing devices themselves. ([Time 0:16:19](https://share.snipd.com/snip/5e258c63-7fff-4019-8321-f5b6e7c34a34))