title:: Dmitri Tymoczko on the Shape of Music —  Mathematical Order in Western Tonality (highlights)
author:: [[COMPLEXITY]]
full-title:: "Dmitri Tymoczko on the Shape of Music —  Mathematical Order in Western Tonality"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/566fa45e-9a21-4601-bc0d-a4c1033f6b5a

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- What's the Structure of Music?
	  
	  Summary:
	  John Cage: What features of music are truly shared by all forms of human music making? For me, i'm not super interested in that question, because there's just a lot of different kinds of music out there. And so a true search for universals is going to leave you with something that's quite thin. I would say that a lot of my work is a little bit more specific, in that the question that i'm most interested in is something more like, what are the corps features of western music as we know it for the last 500 years? John cage: Some of the sexiest and most interesting answer this question using geometry and by providing the sort of higher level models that
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  So you're definitely bringing themes that i want to focus on into focus here. And one of them is, again, that question that was explored in the working group, at least in the first session of the working group back in 20 20 i s f i on what features of the structure of music are indeed universal, and which are specific to various cultural contexts. And i see you dig into this extens ely in your worknd, for me, these questions of syntax and grammar are what connect what you're doing, at least on one level, to what got me into complex system science in the first place, which was the work that david crackar was doing with martin noak and joshua plotkin on the evolution of syntax and the evolution of ascent in space, human communication forma in the first place. And, you know, thinking about it in mathematical terms. So, a bit of historical background on, given that you gave this talk recently at s m f, on visualizing music's harmonic structure in the relationships in mathematical spaces of different dimensions. A little bit of context there, historically, and then how your work builds on that, i think would be a good ramp into this.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Ok, so i would say, before i get there, i would like to give a bit of context that i think is important. And one thing that i would say is there a sort of two questions that we can ask. And one question is about universal musical features. What features of music are truly shared by all forms of human music making? For me, i'm not super interested in that question, because there's just a lot of different kinds of music out there. And if you include the music of the twentieth and 20 first century, you have music, you know, john cage's music of silence. And so a true search for universals is going to leave you with something that's quite thin. I would say that a lot of my work is a little bit more specific, in that the question that i'm most interested in is something more like, what are the corps features of western music as we know it for the last 500 years? So music stretching back to the renaissance composers like caskin, and stretching forward to the present day, and including popular music and jaz and i do think there are some features of that music, structures that characterize that music, that are not universal in the deep sense, but are widespread enough that they sort of constitute our musical world, or some substantial portion of our shared heritage. And that's really the question that gets me going, is sort of thinking about the very general grammatical structure of this particular branch of the world's music making. And it is one that the west has exported over the last hundred years, in the sense that you can now go to all sorts of different countries. You can go to korea, japan, you know, india, and you especially in the popular realm, you will hear a kind of popular music that is ing with western ideas. So that's the question that really animates me, sort of what constitutes western tonality in the most abstract sense? And i would say that there are different ways of answering this question, and in a way, some of the sexiest and most interesting answer the question using geometry and by providing the sort of higher level models that allow you to visualize relationships. But at a more prosaic and more useful level, a lot of what i do is just thinking in a a very basic way about how to make precise the kinds of intuitions or the thoughts that lots of musicians have. I do think that one of my strengths is not being afraid to look dumb, and being willing to sort of say things that, on the one hand and seem kind of obvious, but on the other hand, maybe because they're obvious, or because they're wrongly dismissed as obvious, haven't got as much exploration as they might otherwise have. So one thing that we could talk about is just breaking down some of the basic features that distinguish tonal music from non tonal music, or some of the basic features that make western music what it is. ([Time 0:17:39](https://share.snipd.com/snip/ebd59ad3-97bd-4d85-beb9-8bd808528b8f))