title:: Dr. Andy Galpin —  How to Build Strength, Muscle Size & Endurance | Episode 65 (highlights)
author:: [[Huberman Lab]]
full-title:: "Dr. Andy Galpin —  How to Build Strength, Muscle Size & Endurance | Episode 65"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/487b4d35-b82c-4ed1-a1d3-4324c0b260c2

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Progressive Overload Principles - Are They Most Effective Over Time Strength and Hypertrophy?
	  
	  Summary:
	  The progressive overload principles that are most effective over time strength and hypertrophy. A single joint isolation movement is not the best for developing power. The exercise selection itself is important, but it does not determine the outcome adaptation. For example, a dead lift is probably not a great exercise to do for long duration andurance. You could theoretically do bicep curls for power, but probably not your best choice.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Going to get very far. So that's, i guess, the most high level overview of all the things people can go after. And then we can go from whatever direction you want there.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  I'd love to do the deep dive on each one of the amper a several hours a quite i and imagine that overtime we probably will a. I'd love to chat about a couple of these in a bit more depth. So in terms of defining what the progressive overload variables are eonfer these different categories, maybe we could hit the two most common combinations of these nine things, the first one being a strength and hypertrophy. And maybe we could lump power in there. A, maybe not a yoar that you're the exercise feels, yesjusye, but strength and hypertrophy, which at least bear some relationship y. And then maybe separately, we could explore am sustained work endurance, this 30 minutes or longer, continuously, because i think many people train in that regime. Um. And probably a something like a vio to max anarobic as well, because i know that a number of people now incorporate am. So called hit, or high intensity interval training, i think, with the hopes of either shortening their workouts and or a gaining some additional cardo vascular benefit. So if we could start witha strength and hypertrophy, i know many people want to be stronger. They want to grow larger muscles, or at least maintain what they have. So what or the progressive overload principles that are most effective over time for strength and hypertrophy?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Ok, so i'll actually go a little step back with every one of those categories i talked about, you have what we call your modifiable variables. So this is a very short list of all the things you can modify, the different varia within your workout that can be modified that will change the outcome. A fancy way of saying, if you do this differently, then you're ging to get a different result. Im, so modifiable variables. Im, the very first one of those is called choice s. This is the exercise choice. Tha. You select now one of er. Im gong to go double back here, so i'm kind of doing a little bit conception. So follow me here as i'm going up a layer to come down a couple of layers. Im, i have these fundamental laws of strength n conditioning that that'll kind of like a little bit of a joke, but progressive over thos. One of those laws, another one of those laws is your exercises themselves do not determine adaptations. So here's what imean if you're like, i want to get stronger, you can't select an exercise that doesn't determine you getting strong if you don't do the exercise correctly, and i'm not even referring to the technique, that, of course matters, but if you don't execute it in the right fashion, then you're not going to get that adaptation. So if you choose, i want to get stronger, a n do a bench press. Well, you do the wrong set range, the wrong repetition range, the wrong speed, you won't get strength. You may beget muscular endurance and very little strength adaptation. So the exercise selection itself is important, but it does not determine the outcome adaptation. So the very first thing you need think about if your like, i want to get stronger or add muscle, is not the exercise choice. It is the application of the exercise. What are the sets, or the reps, or the rest rangest you're using. That's going to be our primary determinate. Now, some exercises are certainly better for some adaptations. For example, a dead lift is probably not a great exercise to do for long duration and durance. You could theoretically do 30 straight minutes of dead lifting, but it's probably not our best choice, right? It's probably a pretty good choice for strength development. Ra you gong to do a lol repetition, high set range. You could theoretically do bicept curls for power, but probably not your best choice. A single joint isolation movement is not the best for developing power. Youve ever done crirl as fast as you possibly can, like that's not going to go well. So in theory, any exercise can produce any adaptation givein the execution, is performed properly. So now that we've understood that a little bit, the exercise itself does not determine the adaptation coming within each one of these categories. Exercise choice is at important variable because it does lend you two things, like what movement pattern you're in. So in other words, if if you want to get stronger and you're thinking, ok, what exercise do i do? You need to think think a little bit about what muscle groups do i want to use. And that's going to be leading you towards the exercise choice. For example, i want to use my quads more. Ok, fine. Maybe you're going to choose more of a front squat type of variation, a goblet squat. So the bar, the load, is in front of you. If you want to emphasize maybe more of your handstrings and gloots, youre gong to abe put a bar bel on your back, or do a different one. So the exercise choice is important to the prescription, because it's going to determine a lot of your success. Gant you another kind of simpler way to think about this. If you're a beginner or moderate intermediate, or maybe you don't have a coach, you probably want to hedge towards an exercise selection that is a little bit easier technically. So you maybe don't want to do arba back squat. It's actually a pretty complicated movement. Maybe you want to do a little bit more of a, again, a goblet squat, or even use some machines, or a split squat, something that's a little bit simpler, because you don't have a coach, you're not a professional athlete, the likelihood of success is higher, and the risk has now gone lower. So the very first variable within all these the exercise choice. The second one is the intensity. And that refers to, in this context, not perceived effort, like wile, that was really intense workout. It is, quite literally, either a percentage of your one repit max, or a percentage of your maximum heart rate, or ve to max. I for the strength base things, you want to think about, what's e percentage of the max weight i could lift one time, and that's that' what were gong o cal one rep max. Or it's a percentage of my heart rate, right? So if i tell you to get on a bikean i want you do intervals, and i want you get 75 %, i'm typically referring to 75 % of your max heart rate, or view to max, ([Time 0:14:29](https://share.snipd.com/snip/8c2f1fb7-4819-4280-a42d-e1df808abb04))
	- One Repetition Max
	  
	  Summary:
	  In terms of determining one rep max, i confess i've never actually taken the one ret max for any exercise, but i have some internal sense of what that might be. Is it essary for people to assess their one repetition maximum before going into these sorts of programmes? No, not at all. I think a more intuitive way is to take a repetition range. So just pick a load that you feel comfortable with and do as many repetitions as you can wit a really good technique,. And then look what that number would be. A conversion safer than doing at one repetition maximum for the general public who has, again, no coaching. It's safer for a professional ot that he's
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Or something like that. If i tell you to do squats at 75 %, that means 75 % of the maximamount of weight you could lift one time, or close.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  In terms of determining one rip max, i confess i've never actually taken the one rep max for any exercise, but i have some internal sense of what that might be or and what range it might be. Is it necessary for people to assess their one repetition maximum before going into these sorts of programmes?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  No, not at all. I think a more intuitive way is to take a repetition range. You on othis a coupe of difrent ways. So there are ar equations you can run, and you can just goggle these anywhere. And these are called conversion charts. And so it says, ok, if i did 75 pounds on my bench press, and i did it eight times, you can just run an estimate tand say that, ok, you're probably going to be able to bench about 95 pounds for one or it max, or something. So that's a very easy conversion chart. So just pick a load that you feel comfortable with, but it's kind of heavy, but not loke crazy heavy, and do as many repetitions as you can with a really good technique, and then look what that number would be. So convers safer than doing what one repetition maximum for for the general public, who has, again, no coaching. It's safer. For a professional outlaty's not any safer. But are i not even a professional ai, but a trained person with a coach. But for most people, yet that's agood way to go about it. Um, you can also just kind of do it with feel, in the sense that, say you want to do a set of five repetitions, and you do the load, and you think, i cind o done one or two more. And then then you kind of have an idea of what that number is going to be. If you think, man, that last one had to kind of really, really, really get after it, then maybe just call that that number, right? So you don't have to get overly concerned. In fact, when we start getting into these number ranges, youre going to see that they're all ranges. We're not goingto give a specific 95 % for one of these exact reasons. It's not that ise for most of em. In fact, some of em, like hypertrophe, have enormous ranges that you like, almost can't miss. So that t intensity in that case doesn't even matter for the most part, because that's not the primary determinate. Some of the your going to see, intensity is the determinate. And some of these oure gon to see volume is the true determinate. Im so intensity, though, is that second one choice was the very first one er manipulatable variable. Intensity was the second one, the third one, wis what we call volume. And so this is just how many reps and how many sets are you doing, right? So if you ging to do three sets of ten, that volume would be 30, right? Five sets of five, that volume is 25. It just the simple equation, how much work are you totally doing? The next one pass that is called rest intervals. So this is about of time you're taking in between, typically a set. Then from there you have progression, much as what we started to talk about, this progressive overload. Are you increasing by weight or reps, or rest intervals or complexity, or whatever? All those things can be changed as a method of progression. And so maybe you want to go a progressing from a single joint exercise, like a leg extension on a machine, and you want to progress by moving to a whole body movement, like a squat. That and of itself, you don't to change the load or the reps or the rest. That is a representation of progressive overload, and it's probably a pretty good place to start. Because number one, especially for beginners, you want to make sure that the movement pattern is correct. Don't worry about intensity, don't worry about rep ranges. Or any of these things, you need to learn to move correctly, and you need give your body some time to develop some tissue tolerance so that you're not getting overtly sore. In general, soreness is a terrible proxy for exercise quality. It's a really bad way to estimate whether it was good or a bad work out, especially for people in that beginner to middle to moderate. And effect evenat for our professional athlet, we do not use sorness as a metric of a good workout. It's a really bad idea for a bunch o reasons. On the same token, because stress is required for adaptation. You don't want to leave with the gem and feel ([Time 0:20:12](https://share.snipd.com/snip/4e6a1ee6-2072-4a99-a97b-1804551a87d4))
	- Do You Need to Train a Sore Muscle?
	  
	  Summary:
	  If one body part, or set of body parts is sore, is that an indication that one should stay out of training? I would imagine the answer is no in most cases. If you're like, i can't sit on the couch without crying because my gloots are so sore,. Likewe probably don't need to train again, right we us? Whimpering countes croing. Yes. In that particular case, i'd say you've actually gone to the place of detriment, because now you're goingto have to skip a training session, and now you're behind. You want to walk a pretty fine line, and for most people, i would say hedge a little
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Ik, i don't realy do much. There has to be there. So if you think about soreness on a scale of one to ten, youpro want to spend most of your time in like the three.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  You mean post exercise? Yes, in between workouts, totally. And i i know we'll talk about recovery extensively later, but if one body part, or set of body parts is sore, is that an indication that one should stay out of training? I would imagine the answer is no in most cases. Om and secondarily to that, if a particular muscle is sore, does that mean that muscle is not ready to be trained again yet? The answer to both those is the same, which is no.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  You can certainly train a sore muscleyo, you need to. I guess, little bit of field on that, right? So if you're sore like k like, and you're moving around a little bit, your like, man, this little bit sore, you can train. If you're like, i can't sit on the couch without crying because my gloots are so sore, like, ewe. Probably don't need to train again, right?
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  We jus whimpering countis croing. He yes.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  In that particular case, i'd say you've actually gone to the place of detriment, because now you're gong to have to skip a training session, and now you're behind. So you'r actual total volume, say, across the month as actul can be lower because you went away too hard in those workouts, had to take too many days off. And between you're gong t see hat you going to cover less distance over the course of a month, or six month, or even a year. So you want to walk a pretty fine line. And for most people, i would say, hedge a little bit on the side of less sor than moresore, because frequency is very, very important for almost all these adaptations. Training frequency, which is the last modifiable variable, riht frequency, which is, how many times per week are you, are you doing that thing? So those are a kind of rglobal things that we can play with. So when i'm trying to manipulate and get strength versus hypertrophy, or, you know what, i want like a little bit of both, all those variables are the things that are going through my mind. Which do i need to move in which direction so that i can get this outcome and not this outcome. Over here, for example, some folks might want to get stronger, but not put muscle mass on. Some folks ar tis, kind of want both. And that's a lot o the general public. I wato et little stronger and a little bit more muscle great. But there are instances where people, for performance s or for purely personal preference, like, i don't want to get any more muscle, great, but i want to get stronger assom if you manipulate those variables correctly, you can get exactly that, very little development of muscle size and a lot of development and strength. And this is why we continue to break world records. And sports like power lifting and weight lifting that have weiht classes. So there's a top number that we can hit in terms of body size. But yet we continue ([Time 0:24:16](https://share.snipd.com/snip/d6835100-3ccc-47aa-9bac-385b86fe516e))
	- Using Full Range of Motion in Strength Training
	  
	  Summary:
	  Full range of motion is where we should be striving to, and that's our starting point. You're going to see a lot less injury and a lot more productivity out of your training sessions. In reality, every single exercise is only ever a pull. Muscle doesn't push things away. Muscle can only contract and pull on itself. And so again, people are like super-ar ones, like muscles don't do anything they aren't capable of doing. i would hope enless there's an amazing exercise i haven't heard of.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  The ankle should go through the full range motion the ankle. The knee should go through h full range of motion the knee, the hip, the elbow, et cetera, et cetera. Riht, across the workout, not in a single movement.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Well, i would hope.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Unless there's an amazing exercise i haven't heard of, well, there are some exercises that we're going to call more full body. Think about a full snatch, like you're going to take a lot of your muscle, a lot of your joints through a lot of the ranger motions. Other ones, like an isolation, we call these single joint exercises. So imaginat a bicep cural. You have one joint, in that particular case, the elbow, moving the shoulder, and everything else is pretty much stable. This is how we'll differentiate molti joint from single joint movements. But ye, so cross. I wouldeven say it doesn't even have to be the day, but maybe throughout the week, try to get every joint through full range of motion. Now, a couple of quick caviots to that. I'm not advocating using full range motion and allowing really bad exercise technique. So when i say full range o motion, that's the that doesn't mean every single person can do that for every single exercise. It means that's where we should be striving to, and that's our starting point. Ou're gong to see a lot less injury and a lot more productivity out of your training sessions. In fact, the science is fairly clear on this one. Strength development, as well as hypertre is generally enhanced with a larger range omotion of train and the mechanisms are somewhat understood on that. So that being said, if you have to get into, say, a bad op position with your sa lo back, the spine is a very good one. In general. The spine sates very neutral s what we call it. So no, no flexion, no extension, especially the lumbar. So if you, if you're doing a, say, a dead lift, and in order to take your knee through a four inch emotion a dead lift, you have to compromise your back position, that's no boynow, so cabios there aside, don't kill me. In good positions, don't kill yourselves. Yet, more importantly, so why that matters is, if we walk through strength, the very first thing i want to go through is the exercise selection. So let's choose an exercise which ideally has a full range ofmotion, or close to it, that doesn't induce injury for you thaut you can still maintain good neck and low back and position and everything else you feel comfortable with. So you can feel strong, but you don't feel like, my gosh, if you've never snatched before, having you do a snatch for a maximum even 75 %, it's a terrible idea. You're knot going to feel confident as can be a train wreck. I would rather put you on a machine bench press, seeing gow i feel stable, i feel safe here, and i can just express my strength. So exercise choice in generally general, full range of motion. And you want a kind of balance between the movement areas. So this is an upper body press, so this is pushing away from you. Bench press things like that. Upper body pull, pulling an implement toward you, a bent row pull up. The pressing should be horizontal, so perpendicular to your body, as well vertical. So this is lifting a weight over top of your head, lifting away away from you. The pole version is pulling horizontally to you, and pulling vertically down, pull up, things like that from the lower body. We typically call these hinges. It's sort of a funny muscled thing that no one'sgong to laugh at, but like maybe me and you here is, well, categorize muscles as r movements, exercises as pushes and pulls, right? So like a squat is, tends to be push, because you're pushing away the ground. A dead lift is a pull, cause youre pulling the implement up to you. But in reality, every single exercise is only ever a pull, ([Time 0:28:24](https://share.snipd.com/snip/45d6ea89-033b-4323-a8ea-8e07f06163ec))
	- The Primary Driver of Strength Training Is Intensity
	  
	  Summary:
	  True strength training is really going to be like five repetitions per cet or less. The total amount of sets that you do is really kind o up to your personal fitness lovel. For someone who's trying to break a wold record in weight lifting or power lifting, i don't superset.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  A load that's very high. So because the intensity demand is so high, that is going enforce you to do a low repetition range. You can't do 12 reps at 95 %, then it wouldn't be 95 % of your one or at max. So by definition, true strength training is really going to be like five repetitions per cet or less range. That's where most of it's going to occur. Ospecfice, so we've covered choice intensity and a repetitions, right? The total amount of sets that you do, it is really kind up to your personal fitness level, right? A, if you did as little as like three sets for exercise, that's probably enough. Work sets. Totally, yes. Totally work sets, right? So we'll get fully warmed up and build up at 85 %. Don't just walk into the gym and throw 85 % on and go. Thank you. That's a, thats important distinction. So work your way up, do some, i like a very classic warm up thing would be like a set at ten at 50 %, a set of eight at 60 %, a set of maybe eight, again, at 70 %, maybe like a set of five at 75 %. So two or three or four sets, kind of building intensity and lowering the rep range. And then you would go after your two or three working sets a also, in terms of rest inables now, because we're trying to the primary driver of strength is intense. It's not the volume, itis the intensity. So in order to maintain that, we have to do a low repetition range. But in addition, we also have to have a high rest interval. Because if we start to, if we have any amount of fatigue in ncur and we have to then either reduce the reps or reduce the intensity, we've lost the primary driver. We've lost that main signal. So the number were got through out typically is like two to four minutes. So imagine you did, youknow, you'r set af bench press, and you did five repetitions at 85 %. You probably want to rest two to four minutes before coming back to the bench. That doesn't mean you have to sit there on your phone. Fact, please don't. Like veyone will thank you for not doing that. I promisea you can' engage other muscle groups. This is whatwo be call supersetting. So you're doing your bench best, and while that two minute clock is running for your chest to rest, you can go over and do your dead lifts. And so, you know, you can kind of move back and forth. And this is how you can make strength training not seven hour work out for your professinal autthetyou're gon to take that time because you want to maximize the outcome. A soup. We've done this action in our lap. Two super sets will reduce the strength gains, but by a tiny amount. And most of us don't care enough. Relative to its going to triple the length of your training session, it's ([Time 0:36:46](https://share.snipd.com/snip/89d88001-40a2-4556-96fd-665466988107))
	- The Primary Driver of Strength Training Is Intensity
	  
	  Summary:
	  The primary driver of strength is intensityis not the volume. I is the intensity. In order to maintain that, we have to do a low repetition range. But in addition, we also have to have a high rest interval. So the number were gong to throw out typically is like two to four minutes.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  That's where most of it's going to occur. Ospecfice, so we've covered choice intensity and a repetitions, right? The total amount of sets that you do, it is really kind up to your personal fitness level, right? A, if you did as little as like three sets for exercise, that's probably enough. Work sets. Totally, yes. Totally work sets, right? So we'll get fully warmed up and build up at 85 %. Don't just walk into the gym and throw 85 % on and go. Thank you. That's a, thats important distinction. So work your way up, do some, i like a very classic warm up thing would be like a set at ten at 50 %, a set of eight at 60 %, a set of maybe eight, again, at 70 %, maybe like a set of five at 75 %. So two or three or four sets, kind of building intensity and lowering the rep range. And then you would go after your two or three working sets a also, in terms of rest inables now, because we're trying to the primary driver of strength is intense. It's not the volume, itis the intensity. So in order to maintain that, we have to do a low repetition range. But in addition, we also have to have a high rest interval. Because if we start to, if we have any amount of fatigue in ncur and we have to then either reduce the reps or reduce the intensity, we've lost the primary driver. We've lost that main signal. So the number were got through ([Time 0:37:06](https://share.snipd.com/snip/f7ec7770-613c-4463-b410-afcd5a000d73))
	- I'm Dying Here Soreness, Right?
	  
	  Summary:
	  On a ten scale, how much should i feel it burning during? Anything less than a three kit's probably not doing much. I love this five to 30 for hypertrophybrid thing. You're going to burn like crazy, but you won't get super sore because them cantig attentions to lot is so low. There's no magic recipe that has to happen for all those different workouts.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  A little bit of soreness? There at all. No, i didn't. Well, that's a very good indicasio. You didn't feel it during the workout. You felt no sort of pump, and it didn't get sore. Don't expect much growth.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Didn't astributed the work across a bunch of muscle groups. Most likely other muscle groups were too involved, right?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Especially if you're like, no, butman, my back got reallys well, that's a really good indication of telling you what the hell was moving. And so in terms of targets, if you were to put again, one to ten scale, how much should i feel it burning during? Anything less than three, kit's probably not doing much, right? But it doesn't like, seven is not a ten is not better than seven. You need to feel it, but it doesn't have to be like, oh my gosh, i'm dying here. Sorness. Same barometer, right? So if you can get like, three, three and three, you're probably in a pretty good spot. Five, five and five is maybe better, but you don't need to go much past that. So i want you to feel the muscle group, either work. Or if you're like, i didn't feel it much. I din't raly get pump of the next day it got really sore, then you still, you know, yore on a good path. Im again, really sore. Isn like, oh, a little tender, but next day it's ok. Day after that, iu, i could train, no problem. That's really what you want to go after. And in terms of understanding, is this likely to produce growth or not?
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Excellent. Excellent. Very clear parimeters and recommendations. I know are benefiting me and will benefit a lot of people, if you'd be willing to throw out a few sort of sets and parimeters that could act as broad guide lines fom people who want to a explore further. I realize that with all these modifable variables that there's no one size fits all for strength. I love this five to 30 for hypertrophy thbid thing. I don't think i've ever done a 30 rap set of anything, but, but now that you've thrown that out there, i see it as a bit o won a no.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  And hossom about 30, you're going to get an insane pump. You're going to burn light crazy, but you won't get super sore, because them cattig attentions to t lot so low, it's so light, so you can, you can get away with those things. And you. It's horrid, becuse your mind is going to wander. You can get it like rep 20, and you can become done. And you now there's, there's a lot left here to get 30. Where, like a set of ten is is much easier. Like you just two more, two more. Sa, thirtys, like i got 16 mores.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  It's awful, but you're not counting is work. It's to tarrile, right?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  And people tend to dis kind of like check out. So thirties possible, but a little bit ofscream extreme. But i would recommend em, all of em. Like, it's really fun play. You can do different in the same workout too, by the way, like you could do one of ten push ups, and then take a little break and then do a set of 20 fie t. You can, you can mix and match these things. There's no magic recipe that has to happen for all those or do it different. So mondays ([Time 1:06:17](https://share.snipd.com/snip/4c68874f-9ba8-4947-9b76-e6adf54203e2))
	- The Five Minute Down Regulator
	  
	  Summary:
	  i started doing this because you and briam mackenzie informed me about this. And it completely changed the rate of recovery for me. I realized that i was leaving workouts, both endurance workouts and strength hypertrophe workouts, feeling great, but looking at my phone,. Not concentrating on my breathing. All i did was to introduce, on your recommendation, a five minute down regulation, o exhale, emphasized breathingof a bunch of dfferent varieties. You can even do this in the shower if you have to. Do it and you're saving energy.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  As simple as sit down, i a lock room, if you have to, and just breathe for five minutes.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  That alone, i's gong to be productive. That's great. If you're breathing in the locker room for five minutes, i suggest closing your eyes, or you get some funny looks. And if a, you'll still get funny looks, but you won't see people looking a exactly a. I love this. And i started doing this because you and brian mcken informed me about this. And it completely changed the rate of recovery for me. I realized that i was leaving workouts, both endurance workouts and strength hypertrophy workouts, feeling great, but looking at my phone, getting right into l and meetings, not concentrating on my breathing. And all i did was to introduce a, on recommendation, a five minute down regulation. So exhale emphasized, breathing of a bunch of different varieties, physiological size box breathing. Exhale emphasized twice as long as the inhaled component, for five minutes. And i noticed two things. One, i recovered more quickly work out to work out, no question about it. The numbers told me that. And the other is that i used to have this a dip in energy that would occur three or four hours after a hard workout. And i always thought that had to do with the fact that i had generally eaten a meal at some point post work out. It turns out it wasn't e meal at all. It's at that that adrennel and ramp up during the workout. I wasn't clamping that at the end. And so i think eventually instantly crashed. And then three or four hours later, i'm having a hard time even reading what's on the screen of my computer, thinking, maybe it's the screen, maybe it was what i hate for lunch. Turns out, the down regulations allowed me to work through the afternoon with no issues whatsoeverit's really been quite powerful. And so a'm grateful to you for that. And i think this is something that i think 98 % of people are not doing. And it's only five minutes. Eugene, ave to do five.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Give me three. If you really have to push it, give me three. And you can even do this. You can save time. You can do this in the shower if you have to. So you're, you're done, you're finished, drink of water, whatever has to be, and you're geting a shower. Youretin n ready. Just give me three minutes an shower. It's not ideal, but as little as that, it can pay huge dividends. You need some sort of internal signal that we're safe throttle down ([Time 1:34:01](https://share.snipd.com/snip/dafd4d21-3506-43b8-99e8-2fa0d822bcf1))
	- How to Get to a True Heart Rate Max in 30 Seconds?
	  
	  Summary:
	  Getting to a true heart rate maxes is probablygoing to take more than 30 seconds. Once a week, get to max hartright? Touch it. It's not the best, but it'll, it'll work. And what are the specific benefits that that provides. So if you just start at the heart itself, stroke volume increase. This is amount of blood that's kicked out per contraction. A cardiac output, resting heart rage. If you go to the endithelial function, you're talking about nitric oxide release and capillary mito condria. Pulmonary exchange,. ot the lungs, all those are going to benefit by being challenged to their maximum. You also
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  During the straightway on a track and then walk the corners. Kind of an old classic, back when you and i were kids, interval training. They'll do that any more, i guess. I don't know how hi, we to talk about it in p class.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  We had to change and if you didn't bring running shoes. You had to do it barefoot. Oh, i love an, i love your teacher. Ye, it wasn't aar football, baseball, baseball teams weren't that good. But u anything like running across country just gust. Where i grew up, brutal, brutal coaches, so that, yet they'd make all kids do these runs. Ye.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  So we can be in the the 30 probably seconds at a minimum. It's hard to get you to a true heart rate max in shorter than 30 seconds. You can get the total suck in under 20 seconds, but getting to a true heart rate maxs is probablygong to take more than 30 seconds. So it doesn't really matter what you want to do. It can be, again, a sprint uphill. It could be what yeou're talking it could be burpies to death, like whateer. Whatever you want to do. Ti, those have an eccentric component. Ye, they do. Yo, no question about it. Im, but if you did to actual death, by the way, if you just did, im going to do as many burpiess can for 90 seconds. It probably won't take you much longer an that to get to closto and his acts. Ill work out could be.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  So once a week get to max hartright. Touch it.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I love it. Touch it. It's not the best, but it'll, it'll work.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  And what are the specific benefits that that provides?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Oh k, so earlier in our, in our chat, we we outlined the rule of specificity, specific a adaptation to impose to man. If you're never getting to that high of a pace, you're never, it would be like trying to get stronger, but only going to 60 %. So every cartivascular adaptation that occurs with cartivascular training isj simply going to get to the topper end by doing this. So just start at the heart itself. Stroke volume, increase this amount of blood that's kicked out per contraction. A cardiac output, resting heart rage. If you go to the endithelial function, you're talking about nitric oxide release, endithelial health in general, a capillary mito condria, al w like you just walk through the whole system. Pulmonary exchange to the lungs. All of those are going to benefit by being challenged to their maximum.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  You also teach you where your vomit reflexe, yes, right. Letsdo.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  No stress is what causes adaptationt so if you push your ok, here's the difference. If you did 25 minutes of steady state, you're not challenging the same thing as what we just talked about. The way that i explain this is, if you understand the point, the point of physiological failure, then you understand the place of adaptation. That's it. So if you and i both go run on i we do to both do t a vio to max test. So a classic vioto max test is going to take eight to 12 and it' going to look something like this. We'r gongtoget in a treadmill, and we're going to run. And every minute i'm going to slightly increase that treadmill, either the speed or the grade. Most the time it's the speed, right? So we get to a high grade, say ten % grade or something, and then we go five miles per hour, five point two, five, foury we just go until you can't go any longer. Now let's say you and i did that and we had the same exact time frame, and so we both went eight minutes. The time that you last is not the thing that we care about, right? It's i's the volume of oxygen that you breathe out is what determines it so let's thy went it the same time domain, and we had the same veal tomac. They are both 50 millimeters per kilogram per minute, which is like a ok number, but that's nothing to be extremely proud about. Just because we have the same number does not mean we have the same point of physiological failure. And this matters because it's goig to answer the what do i do about it then? Question, right? So if you got and and i started asking you a series of questions, and you're like, and i baska, said, why d'd you quit? Oh, why did you jump off the tread, but why d you stop? And you were like, my chest, like, i couldn't catch my breath. I thought my heart was going to explode. Ok? Gray, if you asked me and i said, my legs were on fire, like, i was breathing hard, but i couldn't another step, this is a very rough indicator of different places of physiological disruption. Now, what i've seen a lot with my professional athletes, especially like fighters, they are tend they're going to generally fail in their legs because they don't often do a lot of strength training in their legs. They don't do a lot of leg work they're fighting on their back, literally lot, or on top, or on their knees, so that their legs tend to give out before there someone who feels in the cardovasca system, ike, say, you did a lot of leg training. I typically like an endurance athlete whose that's not be their issue. It's just oing tobe ther gon to reach a heart rate and ventilation threshold that's they can no longer handle. If i put you on the exact same train protocols, it's not oing to be as effective, because you're going to always fail at your legsand. They're gong to always fail at their gardovasker system. I need to flip that, right? I need to put you in a position where you can reach a true heart rate or ventilation challenge why your legs are still hanging in there, or the opposite. So the training protocle is based on that point of failure. The adaptation is then the same thing. So if you are failing because of your legs, then you might see a greater increase in capitalization in your legs relative to somebody else whose failing ([Time 1:55:30](https://share.snipd.com/snip/cf997fdd-be83-424b-96e1-94350166af2a))
	- What to Drink Before and Mid Post Workout?
	  
	  Summary:
	  Pre workout can be as little as like five or six ounces, basicl a couple of sips of water. If you come in poorly hydrated, then you maybe need to go more like 12. The research shows pretty clearly, two millograms per kilogram body weight ervor 15 minutes, seems to put you in a pretty good spot. So the best for for this purpose is a, if you're highre salt, or sweat a litle bit more.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Band, or if it's completely clear, then that's going to tell you, big white band, you're probably a high salt sweater. Completely clear, very little coming out. That's great.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Anout. I can see tha the posts on instagram now, people showing there their salt band from from sweating. Osee. Salt is so essential for so many physiological functions. You don't want too high or too low. But if you're losing more, it makes sense you would need to take in more. So half of my body weigh in ounces, as a just foundation of a fluid intake. Coffee and tea could be included in that, but that should probaly be mostly water, things similar to it. Am. And then during exercise, the how do i want to think about this again, let's say'. Let's say i'm a high salt output, then i'd want to drink maybe forty ounces of water with ror more. Ye ok, i'll do this easier. Im.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Let's talk about pre and so what to drink? Pre if youif you come in having hit these rules, youre roce. And pre workout can be as little as like five or six ounces, basicly, couple of sips of water, fine. If you come in poorly hydrated, then you maybe need to go more like 12. But here's the deal, if you start off a session in a bad spot, you're not going to catch back up. Like just you're in trouble, let's sal. You come and utit. You follow direction. 500 milligrams salt before, five hundre milligrams after. Very easy rule. Pick whatever source you want. That's a couple of sprinkles of table salt. If you want himalayan, that'sfi. You don't have two himalands actually ave fairly low sodium salt, so it's not the best for for this purposes. A if you're highe salt or sweatr a ittle bt. More. If you want to go choose an electrolite, of which there are infinite you can look on the packet and it'll tell you, you know, to hundred 50 milligrams per serving, or 400 or 600, or whatever hapens to be around five hundredp uner post is a very general rule. And then during is, thanks to you, my famous galpin equation. Now thati is all over the world, all i did as i took the literature and i said, ok, in general, the research shows pretty clearly, two millograms per kilogram body water for 15 minutes seems to put you in a pretty good spot. Most people don't think about kilogram s or millters. So can i just run that over and t turns out it's about your body weight divided by 30 ant ounces.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Like that's that's all you have t body weight ([Time 2:29:27](https://share.snipd.com/snip/8d6db604-cbe2-42ef-afdb-105337cf3db4))