title:: Dr. Alia Crum —  Science of Mindsets for Health & Performance (highlights)
author:: [[Huberman Lab]]
full-title:: "Dr. Alia Crum —  Science of Mindsets for Health & Performance"
category:: #podcasts

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- How Do Mind Sets Simplify Life?
	  
	  Summary:
	  Ritza: I've heard you say before that mind sets simplify life in some way by constraining the number of things that we have to consider. What are some examples of mind sets? And how early do these get laid down, or do we learn them from our parents? Ritza: By and large, we've focused on mind sets in the domain of health and health behaviors. We've also looked at mind sets about food and healthy eating.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Minds sets about food, mind sets about medicine, you name it. Ait's sort of distilling down those assumptions that really shape an orient are thinking an action.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  I've heard you say before that mind sets simplify life in some way by constraining the number of things that we have to consider a and it sounds to me like we can have mind sets about many things, as you said, what are some different mind sets? I think many people are familiar our colleague, carrol dek, a notion of growth mind set, that if we're not proficient at something, that we should think about not being proficient yet, that we are on some path to proficiency. But what are some examples of mind sets? And how early do these get laid down, or do we learn them from our parents, who maybe if you could just flush it out a bit for us in terms of what use what you've observed in your own science or your own life, even yes, sure.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  So i think it's important. With with carol dwack's work, a lot of people kind of get focused on growth motivation and all these things. But her work really originated from thinking about what she called those implicit theories or cor beliefs about the nature of intelligence or ability. Ritza, do you believe that your base line levels of intelligence or your abilities are fixed, static set throughout the rest of your life? Or do you believe that they can grow and change? Now, those are over simplified generalizations about the nature of intelligence. And the reality is, as it always is, complex in its a bit of both. And it's all thes things. But as humans, we need these simplifying systems to help us understand a complex reality. So those assumptions that we jump to, oh, intelligence is fixed, or intelligence is malleable, ah, they help us to simplify this complex reality, but they're not inconsequent, inconsequential. They they matter in shaping our motivation. And as she has shown, if you have the mind set that intelligence is malleable, you're motivated to work harder to grow your intelligence. If you have a setback in your learning, you think, ok, there's something there that i can grow and learn and build from. If you have the mind that it's fixed, you know, why work harder at math if you don't think o good at it? So, you know, in retrospect, it's pretty clear how these mind sets can affect our motivation. What our work has aimed to do is to expand the range of mind sets that we are a studying focused on, and also understand and expand the range of effects that they have. So by and large, we've focused on mind sets in the domain of health and health behaviors, aso i mentioned, in mind sets about stress. We've also looked at mind sets about food and healthy eating. So do you have the mind set that foods that are good for you, healthy foods, are disgusting and depriving? Or do you have the mind set that healthy foods are indulgent and delicious? Now, you know, it could be a variety of different foods. You might have different thoughts about different healthy foods, but generally, people, at least in our culture and in the west, have this view that stress is debilitating, healthy foods are disgusting and depriving. And those mind sets, whether or not they're true or false, right or wrong, they have an impact. And they have an impact not just through the motivational mechanisms that dwack and others have studied, but as our lab as started to reveal they also shape physio logical mechanisms by changing what our bodies prioritize and prepare to do. Ahso those are just two examples. Minds tets about stress, minds thets about food. We've looked at minds thets about exercise. Do you feel like you're getting enough, or do you feel like you're getting an insufficient amount to get health benefits you're seeking? A mind sets about illness. Do you view cancer as an unmitigated catastrophe, or do you view cancer as manageable, or perhaps even even an opportunity? A we've looked at mind sets about symptoms and side effect. Do you view side effects as, you know, a sign that the treatment is is harmful, or do you view side effects as a sign that the treatment is working? Again, these are sort of corps beliefs or assumptions you have about these domains or categories, but they matter because they're shaping their synthesizing ([Time 0:10:12](https://share.snipd.com/snip/ad3df78a-5cce-4fb1-9900-5feb8d73b1f0))