title:: Dwayne Betts on Beauty, Prison, and Redaction (highlights)
author:: [[EconTalk]]
full-title:: "Dwayne Betts on Beauty, Prison, and Redaction"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/fde4f55d-0f8b-4c69-9a63-b84dd04a44ef

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 29th, 2023]]
	- What I Wanted to Read Was Sophie's Choice
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* The author became a poet after reading Sophie's Choice and Sophie's World, which exposed her to literature that made her more sensitive to the Holocaust., * The author's first experience with the Holocaust was when she was 16 and was put in solitary confinement., * The author's decision to commit to being something else lasted longer than the decision to not understand the Holocaust.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  And I mean, it's my first experience with really understanding what the Holocaust is, but even thinking about what it means to be Jewish as like, idea as a notion, right. So I get locked up and, and I'm trying to find a way back. Right. And I got this teacher that's telling me I can help you get your house with a plumber. And, and essentially what my, my course of study became with her was, you know, look, you have enough credits to graduate right now. All you need to do is finish 11th grade, it's like 12th grade English. So I did all of my classes at the county jail. And then she gave me 12th grade English and with 12th grade English, because since I got, is reading everything, you know, I'm reading King Arthur. I read Ernest James. I'm reading anything that I want to read, anything that she tells me to read. And she says, what do you want to read? And I said, you know, I want to read this book, Sophie's World. I think about this teacher. And I said, I want to read Sophie's World. And so she's like, okay, I'm gonna get you Sophie's World. If he comes back like, you know, a week later, and she says, I think you're mistaken. Because I was looking for it and I can't find a book called Sophie's World. I think you want to read Sophie's Choice.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Not the same.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  And you know, I'm like 16 and it's like, what was me? And then I read Sophie's Choice and my world is blown. And I go from, from Sophie's Choice to the confessions of that turn. And so in my own head, you know, I tell this origin story about becoming a poet, but I think the reality is even before I had became a poet, something else had to happen, which is I had to get exposed to the literature that then we have some sensitivity to understanding that it's not just what was me. So this is 1996. It's 1998 when I ended up sorry, Sophie's World. I read Sophie's Choice in 1996. It's 1998 when I'm at the first prison that I met. You know, I've been sentenced. I've been transferred downstate to the prison. And if something happened on the yard and I ended up getting put in solitary confinement and it was the summer of 1998. Books were contraband. So they took all of my books and they didn't let anybody get any books back there. But you would hear guys on the door asking for books. And then people would slide them books and it was just like the Underground Library. If somebody had a book and the actual one, they would give it to you. And they wouldn't actually want it. You know what I mean? So I read like so many readers digest books. But I remember I was like, yo, somebody send me a book and then, you know, this poetry book, Deli Randall's the Black Poets slides out of myself. And the truth is though, you know, and at first I was like, what am I going to do with this re poetry? You know, I'm 16, 17 years old. I'm a solid certain findment. What is a poem going to do for me? But I discovered, you know, Robert Hayden, Claude McKay, Lucille Clifters, Sonia Sanchez, like so many fascinating writers. But the thing that really turned me into a poet was I discovered at three's night. And he had this poem in a quote on for Freckler, face Gerald. And one of the lines was 16 years hadn't done a good job on my voice. And I'm a kid when I'm reading it. And I said, with his precise speech and innocent grin, he couldn't quite win a trust of the fists of the black cats around him. And I'm in this poem about the 16 year old kid who ends up getting raped and present. And the poem was written in the 70s. And so I was thinking, like, what was me? You know, I'm 16, 17 years old. I'm in prison. And it's a whole cohort of us. And I'm thinking, this is the first time that this is ever happening, where I can't believe this is going on. And then I read this poem that's about somebody who could have been me in the 70s. And I just thought, wow, a poem could be history. It could be psychology. And also I read it and it made me grateful for the life that I had, which is, you know, you grateful for anything in prison. But I didn't really have precise speech. I didn't have an innocent grin. And people loved me even in prison. And even in the hole, I knew, like, and I was not a tough guy. I was in the hole. I mean, I was probably in the hole because somebody had, like, swung on me. And I never, you know, I didn't really retaliate, you know. So it's not like I was a tough guy. But I read that poem and I knew the thing that the poet did was capture a story that the person who experienced it couldn't, because the person who experienced it might not have survived. And at that moment, I was like, you know, this is the thing I want to be. This is the thing I want to do. And it's really strange to commit to doing something, you know, being something when you're so young. But, you know, I did. And all these years later, I committed to being two things. And it's actually not committed to being a criminal to not understanding that it's a decision I was making. And then to be able to commit to being something else. And it had other things last longer than the first thing is still something that's pretty humble to me. ([Time 0:08:46](https://share.snipd.com/snip/25f72687-e820-40b0-8578-ba1c2e8a7280))