title:: E217 —  Jay Shetty —  8 Rules for Perfect Love & Amazing Sex! (highlights)
author:: [[The Diary Of A CEO with Steven Bartlett]]
full-title:: "E217 —  Jay Shetty —  8 Rules for Perfect Love & Amazing Sex!"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/02225d16-766e-42da-aefb-c0a8ff4b8a2f

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 4th, 2023]]
	- How To Make A Good Decision When Dating
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* It is hard to find love right now., * It is hard to make decisions from your current mindset., * It is more likely to settle for someone if you are dating.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Well, I think the first thing I'd say is it is hard. It is a really tough time to be single right now compared to what it was like a few years ago. Like it is much harder with the landscape and how it's changed like 25, 50 years ago, you'd meet someone who lived in a one to five mile radius from your home. You wouldn't even be thinking about having a long distance relationship in the same way. Whereas today you're meeting anyone and everyone all across the world. You have an app that connects you to anyone in that location and area wherever you just got off a plane. So there is complexity. There's more choice now. There's the paradox of choice of well, there's plenty of fish in the sea. And if this doesn't work out, there's so many more people and other people that are thinking about you and you're worried about that. So it is much harder. And so I don't want to get away from that. Like I don't want to negate the fact that dating today and finding love is hard. It's why I wrote the book. I think that what I'm encouraging for people to understand is that A, having all those insecurities around relationships doesn't put you in the best decision making profile to make the right decision. So all of that stress and all of that insecurity and all of that anxiety is more likely to push you into a relationship that is unhealthy and toxic than it is to help you move in the right direction. So first of all, I just want you to accept that making a decision from your current mindset is not going to help you make a good one. It's just not going to work. You're more likely to settle for someone. You're more likely to give in for something less than you deserve, because right now you're just happy with anything. You're just happy with someone who texts you back. And that's not the relationship you want to be in. So first I would accept that this mindset is not going to help you. The mindset that is going to help you is, okay, if I figure out three simple things, just what I like and what I don't like about myself and in life, not about a person. I'm not asking you to even think about a person. What do I like and not like as me? What are my values personally right now? Like what's valuable to me? Not about this person. What's valuable to me? And what are my goals? If you figure out those three things, you're more likely to meet people. How? If you know what you like and dislike, you're going to spend time in places that you like and dislike. Were you more likely to meet people that have similar likes and dislikes or that at least you can connect with? Second, if you know your values, you're more likely to know who to ask for an introduction to someone because you know who knows who. You know that that friend of yours is more likely to know someone who has a similar value because they're of that value. And then goals make it easier to figure out whether it's going to go somewhere. So you actually speed up and simplify a really tough selection process because our whole society set us up to say, right, list of what you want in a person. Right, list of what you want in yourself. Like just write a list of like, who are you? What are my values and what are my goals? And you figured that out. ([Time 1:33:07](https://share.snipd.com/snip/a5096240-5b11-4656-ba1e-473dc72482c8))