title:: Einstein: His Life and Universe (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Einstein: His Life and Universe"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/einstein-isaacson/
document_note:: Einstein was a rebel from an early age, questioning everything and never losing his childlike wonder. He had a strained relationship with his family, and had four revolutionary papers in four months during a burst of creativity and intelligence in 1905, where he developed his famous equation e=mc2. His first revolutionary idea was that light came in little packets and came in waves, which was later proven. He also created the general relativity theory, believing that time was not absolute. He loved the water and the violin, was a pacifist, and was willing to revoke his German citizenship. He had a complicated relationship with his wife Mileva Maric and his son Hans Albert, and even went to Italy and Austria for school. He had a never before seen fame and popularity, and wanted to create a unified government structure to help quell disputes and stop wars. His last day alive was spent trying to solve the unified world theory.
tags:: #[[@einstein]] #[[phsyics]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 13th, 2023]]
	- Einstein had 4 revolutionary papers in 4 months. They each changed the world. One of the most amazing bursts of creativity and intelligence in history. 1905 was one of the most revolutionary years in history - quantum theory of light, proved atoms exist, explained Brownian motion, upended concepts of space and time and his famous equation
	  
	  1.  His first revolutionary idea was that light came in little packets, [photons](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photon), and were not only a wave
	  2.  Second was the theory and later proven that particles and atoms definitely exist
	  3.  Third is [special relativity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special_relativity) - observers are moving at a constant velocity relative to each other. [General relativity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_relativity) came 10 years later.
	    1.  If riding next to a beam of light at the same speed it should appear to be still although oscillating spatially. If everything was a wave there would have to be a universal "ether" which nobody had been able to prove and Einstein thought couldn't exist
	    2.  Had 2 essential postulates - theory of relativity where all laws of physics are the same for two observers moving at the same speed and also for inert observers on moving object (people on earth, on a plane, etc.)
	  4.  Lastly, his world-known e=mc2 equation which determined that an object's energy depended on its mass * the speed of light squred ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4tc4j8gfr791h8zjmkfsg4))
		- **Note**: In 1905, Albert Einstein had four revolutionary papers in a span of four months, which changed the world. These included the quantum theory of light, proof of atoms existing, explanation of Brownian motion, upended concepts of space and time, and the famous equation e=mc2. He postulated that light came in little packets, photons, and was not only a wave. He also theorized that particles and atoms existed, and proposed both the special and general theories of relativity. His last paper was his famous equation e=mc2, which determined that an object's energy depended on its mass multiplied by the speed of light squared. This burst of creativity and intelligence is considered one of the most amazing in history.
	- His key insight to solve that light moves at a constant velocity is that time is not absolute. What appears to be happening simultaneously to one observer will not appear so to another who is moving rapidly and there is no way to determine who is right ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs4tf7rr4mmm3s1dcvs9sf5c))
		- **Tags**: #[[general relativity]]