title:: EP 44 —  Sid Sijbrandij (Founder/Ceo, GitLab) - Corporate Transparency, Open Source Philosophy, Remote Work and Global Talent Pools (highlights)
author:: [[The Logan Bartlett Show]]
full-title:: "EP 44 —  Sid Sijbrandij (Founder/Ceo, GitLab) - Corporate Transparency, Open Source Philosophy, Remote Work and Global Talent Pools"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/ffdb9001-8ee5-4920-830a-7c7829ead5d5

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Mar 6th, 2023]]
	- GitLab's Guide to All-Remote Work
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* GitLab has over 1,500 employees and has been successful in running a remote company., * The company has created a shared reality for its team members by being diligent about not duplicating information, and by varying its management style.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Can you talk to some of the things, either strategies or processes or just philosophies in place that has allowed you to be successful with a remote company of how many people do you have today?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeah, so we have about over 1,500 people at GitLab today. And what we found out during the pandemic that remote was a lot easier than we thought, because everyone was skeptical of it, we always assumed it was very hard. We had to work extra hard to have a, have a well-run company. During the pandemic, companies discovered that it was very possible to run remote. I do think that along the way, because we were so conscious of how we were organized, we discovered some other things. We recently bundled those in team ops. So team ops kind of is a bundle of four big principles that we discovered and we think are useful for other companies, whether they work remote or not. What is team ops? Can you talk through the four principles? Yeah, so the first one is creating a shared reality for your team members. And that entails things as having a single source of truth, like being really diligent about not duplicating information. It is about situational leadership and varying your management style. And it's about having shared values. The second principle is to allow everyone to contribute. We do that through things like iteration, reducing the scope of things and getting them out faster. Everybody's allowing other people to give suggestions of what you should do in your role. But without the necessity to take them, I think you're able to combine the best of the speed of hierarchical organizations and the information that flows in consensus organizations. You always allow people to bring suggestions, but never require the recipient of them to acknowledge them or argue with them. So you don't have to defend your decisions because if you would require that, things start flying under the radar. The third principle is decision velocity, like making decisions faster, giving agency, having a bias for action to explain your reasoning to work asynchronous when you can. Be transparent in how not just how you measure, but what the measurements are for all the different parts of the company to the extent you can, and making sure that people always kind of work with the same other people to the extent that you can.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Yeah, I want to go through a bunch of your operating principles and things like that, because I think a lot of the things you just said touched on a bunch of them. But on the remote point, it seems like you've found a handful of tactics. Like I've heard you say, meetings are very expensive, right, which I think is fascinating as a concept. Or it's actually good if people are doing other things in a meeting, to some extent, like sending email. I shouldn't feel guilty about it. Can you talk through like how you actually put some of these things into action? Are documents sent in advance before a meeting? Are there videos for presentations to sort of help people prepare asynchronously? How do some of these things manifest themselves?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeah, I think almost everyone agrees that they're longer in meetings than they would like to be, and it stands in the way of work. And one thing we do at GitLab is always prepare meetings. Always have an agenda front. The second thing is to evolve that agenda into the notes as the meeting goes. And I've seen so many companies where the agenda and the notes are different. I think that's ridiculous. The agenda is kind of what you're going to discuss. And then you fill out what you discussed as you go along. When you want to ask a question, you typically put your name in the kind of the agenda that's becoming the notes as a kind of a placeholder and preferably with the question you're going to ask. What we never do in meetings is present in meetings. A meeting is very expensive in the sense that you need to bring everyone together at the same time. It is hard, especially if you work across time zones. GitLab has people in over 60 countries, so that is sometimes very tough. So it is encouraged to have a presentation. And you can send that to people in advance. Typically you also link it from the agenda. You link the agenda from the meeting invite. If you want to present, that's also encouraged. You record a video beforehand. Then another thing that you alluded to is that we think it will be spectacular coincidence if 100% of a meeting is interesting to you. Probably not 100% is relevant to you. And it's totally cool to do your email on the side, to do whatever you want on the side. And it's okay to say, oh, sorry, I wasn't paying attention. Can you repeat the question? That is not a problem. It's almost a badge of honor. You're apparently a good manager of your own time. You thought that part wasn't relevant. Also helps that notes are taken, so it's much quicker to get up to speed with the meeting if it suddenly is interesting or something happens. So we try to have quicker meetings and allow you to do some of the prep upfront. And we allow you to not have to feel bad if you're looking somewhere else in your camera. ([Time 0:25:46](https://share.snipd.com/snip/84434cae-a1b2-495f-804c-b5d003f54c33))