title:: Ep 45 - Sami Richard (highlights)
author:: [[Here For The Truth]]
full-title:: "Ep 45 - Sami Richard"
category:: #podcasts

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- The Body Is Not a Vector of Disease, Is It?
	  
	  Summary:
	  i've always believed that human beings are not walking vectors of disease. As we connect our bodies, we connect more to the world. When your consciousness is stated in the body, you naturally feel the connection to your oundings ecause you're more integrated. That's exactly why they're pushing these narratives, the war on germs and smothering us with carbon dioxide. You cannt go out the nature. More tatwe carbon taxes, less outlaw fossil fus and i'm not thankful. So if you was good, but they know they're not good, and they're playing on that."
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 3
	  And that's, that's the thing. It's like that's my umbrella. You know, i'm still human. I have emotions. I connect te different parts, but as a general rule, that's just how i believe. And you hit the nail in the head on terms of bringing it back to the body. That was my hugest transformation. As i'm a body worker, i've gone down a lot of thesea, different areas of study around that. But once i got into the physical body, in viewing body as a shadow and doing deep somatic work like that, changed the game for me. It was just a complete am a waking up process of the deeper parts of me. So i couldn't agree more that, like, if you're just staying in your mind and you have no connection to the physical body. Ike, even with what's happened the last two years, where we've been conditioned to fear the air, we've been conditioned to fear other people walking within six feet of us, like, i've always believed that human beings are not walking vectors of disease. Ike, i think always, like, i think my mam growing up would be like in greek. I mean, minpisneoptoputiti, like, don't drink out of someone else's glass. And i'm like, what? Like, yos crazy to me. Like, i'm drinking out of glasses. Like people like, i got ty got to put like, forty seven pieces of toilet paper on the toilet and and, because you're goin to catch germs, and i just sat on a toilet, lik, i just never worried about that. I don't know, i never got any like diseases, and never got like, some rash on my but, you know, i mean, i rom doing that. I donthe lik, i just, it goes along with that whole thing, trusting the body, trusting the innate intelligence of your body, trusting that wisdom and not not coming to that fear a lot of it.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  That, of course, is being programmed into usmi, mean, that the real word fors disconnect us from the natural world, and that is our bodies. That tat. As we connect our bodies, we connect more to the world. Bcause when your consciousness is stated in the body, you naturally feel the connection to your oundings ecause you're more integrated. Whereas when you're stuck in your head, you're not tuned in properly. You are used utilizing your sentences, but you're not utilizing that sixth sense, that hia senseory perception that only can be found within the body. That's exactly why they're pushing these narratives, the war on germs. That's why it's so affected. That's why we're being smothered with t breathing back in, or carbon dioxide. That's a complete inversion of the fundamental, the breath of life. Breath is life. Yet we're being made to invert the breath. So this is how deep the inversion goes. It goes right back tor the fundamental of the breath. So that's why i believe they chose this specific event, because as more that weathee the world, the more disconnected we become, the more willing we are to find refuge in the virtual world, safety, security and stability and convenience. And that's how they're gone to sell it. Same of the environmental agender. Everything too polluted. You know, you cannt go out the nature. More tatwe carbon taxes, less outlaw fossil fus and i'm not thankful. So if you was good, but they know they're not good, and they're playing on that, the fact thatnit, so that we just pay more taxes and just baden any sense of freedom. So you can see how each thing builds upon one another. ([Time 0:51:18](https://share.snipd.com/snip/48b38a66-6b2a-4286-9f39-cfc3059023fd))