title:: Ep. 14 - Awakening from the Meaning Crisis - Epicureans, Cynics, and Stoics (highlights)
author:: [[Stephen Batchelor]]
full-title:: "Ep. 14 - Awakening from the Meaning Crisis - Epicureans, Cynics, and Stoics"
category:: #articles
url:: https://www.meaningcrisis.co/ep-14-awakening-from-the-meaning-crisis-epicureans-cynics-and-stoics/
document_note:: The text discusses the philosophies of Epicureans, Cynics, and Stoics. It explains how Alexander's rise to power blurs the line between human and god and creates an Age of Anxiety in the form of Domicide (the destruction of home). Epicureans believe that the main problem is fear and the philosopher is the physician of the soul. Cynics believe that suffering comes from setting one's heart on the wrong things and Stoics believe in integrating the rational argumentation of Plato with the provocative aspects of the Cynics. Finally, the text looks at how these philosophies are being taken up in psychotherapeutic endeavors to deal with our own version of Domicide and the meaning crisis.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Apr 7th, 2023]]
	- Alexander is so glorious that the line between being a human being and being a god is blurred. He creates a personal mythology in which he is a god man very much like the pharaohs of ancient Egypt which might perhaps explain why Alexander was so readily welcomed into the courts of Egypt. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx20pha237c4nr1y916xna0z))
	- if you're alive at the time of Aristotle, chances are you live, if you're Greek, part of the Greek culture, you live in a Polis - this is where we get "cosmopolitan" from. It doesn't mean city, it means a city state. Like, for example, Athens and its surrounding agricultural supporting environment. Or Sparta. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx20qmamnw0rx6zxb5m3m7km))
	- Now what does this mean? Well this means, in the Hellenistic Era, people are being moved around and shuffled around and they belong to far flung empires. You are now probably thousands of miles away from the seat of government. You do not participate in that government, nor do you know, personally, most of the people or any of the people in it. The people around you might not have lived where you're living very long; you might not be living where you've been living very long. Your ancestors might have been from Athens and here you are dwelling in Asia Minor. The people around you speak different languages, worship different gods! Notice how all the connections are being lost; you don't have a connection to a Polis, you don't have a connection to a shared linguistic group of any great extent, shared history, shared ancestry, shared religion. You're experiencing what Porteous and Smith and Brian Walsh called Domicide (we'll come back to this later when we talk about the meaning crisis today). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx20tjw3m2fws6m0t3y1765w))
		- **Note**: The Hellenistic Era was a time when people were moved around to different empires and lived in places far away from where their ancestors were from. This meant that they were no longer connected to their hometowns, cultures, language, history, families, or religion. This disconnection was called "Domicide" and it caused a lot of confusion and sadness.
	- Domicide is the destruction of home. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx20vfh2bcsv706m7hpwqqca))
	- So people are experiencing this radical sense of Domicide. They don't have deep connections to themselves, to each other, to their environment, to their history, to their cultural surroundings. They have very little political participation. They feel insignificant. You can go to sleep and you're part of the Ptolemaic empire and you wake up and you're part of the Seleucid Empire! So this is known as an Age of Anxiety: The Hellenistic Period. The art changes, it becomes much more frenetic, it becomes much more realistic. It becomes much more organized around extremes and tragedy. The confidence that we saw in the earlier periods, the periods of Socrates, Plato and Aristotle, was gone! Greece itself has suffered a titanic civil war: The Peloponnesian War. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx20wtz68pmbd0ecmrccb7vr))
		- **Note**: People in the Hellenistic Period felt a lot of anxiety. They didn't feel connected to themselves, each other, their environment, or their culture. They had very little power to make decisions. One day they could be part of the Ptolemaic Empire and the next day they could be part of the Seleucid Empire! This made them feel scared and confused. The art of this time period changed to become more realistic and intense. The confidence they felt during the time of Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle was gone. Greece had also been through an awful civil war.
	- when you feel Domicide, when you feel a loss of home, there is nothing that means home more to you than Mother. And if you don't have that with your physical mother, what you want is some Divine Mother that can make you feel at home no matter where you are in this fractured, domicile laden world. But philosophy also responds. The Axial Age has left a powerful legacy - Socrates, Plato and Aristotle - and that project does not come to an end, but it does undergo transformation in the face of The Hellenistic meaning crisis. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx20yqkbb14rp4tqdsybc3z5))
		- **Note**: Divine Mother calls 🙏
		  comfort in our domicide 💔
		  Axial Age legacy 📘
	- one of the great philosophers of the Hellenistic Period is Epicurus. And Epicurus famously said "Call no man a philosopher who has not alleviated the suffering of others". So there is now a therapeutic aspect to wisdom. Wisdom is now importantly about dealing with the anxiety and suffering that people are experiencing in the Hellenistic Era ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx2102txx161dykzjqyrbzve))
		- **Note**: Epicurus said: 💬
		  alleviate suffering of others 🤝
		  wisdom is therapeutic 💆
	- Now, many of these new philosophical schools - the Epicurean for example, and the Stoics - take it upon themselves to try to exemplify Socrates. They try to exemplify Socrates. The Epicureans do this in a very unique way. They do this in a - a useful way of analyzing their position is to take them up on their own metaphor: what is their diagnosis of the disease that is afflicting people? ...and what is their prognosis for the cure? Now the Epicureans are very relevant to us because they in some ways represent a very secular alternative in the midst of what was still a very religious world. And that is pertinent to us. So the Epicureans diagnose that our main problem is fear ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx211fef3nz7szw73gmw5vre))
		- **Note**: Epicureans prescribe secular cure for fear.
	- Fear is when you have an observable, direct threat. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx217kd1hsgqy1n1kbnpfqdj))
	- Anxiety is different. Anxiety is when the threat is nebulous. You're not quite sure what the threat is and you're not sure what to do. You don't know what to do. So very often when you are suffering existential issues you experience anxiety. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx2189ddc9j2x4wsngxx3wae))
	- This is why this is the preferred term used by Kierkegaard and Heidegger. Although Kirkergar does use fear in one of his books, but that has more to do with something else. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx218ey0ec3m56xhr09fawq9))
	- So the Epicureans are often translated, I think correctly - I'm not talking about/ I'm not making a scholastic point - as talking about how we are suffering because we can't manage fear. I think a better way of understanding it, given this distinction and following on Tillich, is we suffer because we can't manage our anxiety. Because the thing, the fears they talk about are not really things that are a clear threat where we clearly know what to do.  
	  So, according to the Epicureans, basically we don't control our imagination and our thinking and so we suffer from anxieties that cripple our ability to get a grip on the world. So let me give you one: (on screen note: When John mentions the Epicureans, he often uses both "anxious" and "afraid" to mean "anxious") Many people are anxious about death. In fact, sort of prototypically, people will often say, well, they'll often use the existence of death as a way of talking about how their life is ultimately meaningless: "I'm going to die anyways. What does it matter? I'm going to die! And it's terrifying! I don't think... It's going to... It's, right... I'm just afraid of death!" We know that if you expose people to triggers about their own mortality, they become cognitively rigid, they go into something very much like this parasitic processing, they get locked down. Now there's a couple things you can do. You can pursue immortality and, of course, the religions of the ancient world and some versions of the modern world offer this! I have very little to say for this other than, as a cognitive scientist, I think that is an utterly doomed strategy. The evidence that your mind and your consciousness are completely dependent and emergent from your brain is overwhelming. And one thing is indisputable: your brain dies. And when your brain dies, your consciousness, your character, yourself die with it. I know that's even, I suppose, antithetical to what many Buddhists believe, but that's... that's irrelevant! ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx219bx9wy2ky8tdsbgxybed))
		- **Note**: People suffer from anxieties that lead to cognitive rigidity.
	- What is it that gives you the most meaning in life? And here's where the Epicureans have a beautiful answer and they pick it up from Socrates: "The thing that gives you meaning is friendship". And they mean that very broadly. So they were unique in their community: they included women in their community, not primarily for sexual relations, but they considered that the ability to obtain meaningful relationships was crucial. And with those... and, ok... meaningful relationships, not just the relationships, but being able to exercise philosophia: the pursuit of wisdom and self-transcendence. And their point is that as long as you are, that is always available to you. And that any of the pain you're suffering from the loss of any of the any of these things (fame, fortune, wealth) is ultimately manageable by you. You can learn to manage it. Now whether or not you ultimately agree with the Epicureans, do you see what they're doing here? They're refusing to accept "I'm afraid of death!" They're saying "wait wait wait wait. Are you... do you really want immortality?" What you're actually afraid of is losing your Agency which you've identified with these things, but that's not actually where your ultimate happiness lies. That as long as you have cognitive Agency, you can cultivate Philosophical friendships. And Epicurus did this right to his very last moment, even though suffering from some horrible stomach illness. So he exemplified what he's talking, about such that when you die it doesn't matter to you. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21axvdrkayd0t0dy8yhsz0))
		- **Note**: The Epicureans have an interesting answer to what gives us the most meaning in life: friendship. They mean this in a broad way, including both forming meaningful relationships and exercising wisdom and self-transcendence. Even if we lose things like fame, fortune, and wealth, we can still be happy if we have the ability to control our own lives. Epicurus showed this by living his life until his last moment, even though he was suffering from a serious illness. He showed us that it doesn't matter what happens to us when we die.
	- Either you believe in an afterlife or your life, your current life is meaningless. Instead, the Epicureans say there is an alternative strategy. There is an alternative therapy for dealing with the anxiety. And that is by learning how, not just learning beliefs, but learning how to live in the acceptance of your mortality. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21dsmmg3wnm0gxyy7ma50s))
		- **Note**: Epicurean way: 🤔
		  accepting life and mortality 🖤
		  for a peaceful heart 💗
	- The current forms of psychotherapy that are the most evidence based for being effective - the cognitive therapies like cognitive therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy, rational Emotive Therapy, etc. - directly come out of stoicism. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21ewp47djh9q7fjcxy612t))
	- So although the Epicureans patterned themselves on Socrates, there they come out of Socrates. The Stoicism is really something close to being a religion that's trying to internalize Socrates, so that Socrates is basically - and I don't mean this disrespectfully, because the Stoics certainly wouldn't - Socrates is turned into a systematic set of psycho-technologies that you internalise into your metacognition. So, what became crucial for Plato, as we saw, was argumentation. But for Antisthenes the actual confrontation with Socrates was more important. Both Plato and Antisthenes are interested in the transformation that Socrates is affording. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21g7a1nvp1th9ycn3xpjmz))
		- **Note**: Socrates internalized into Stoic religion, psycho-technologies for metacognition.
	- There are moral laws as to what is a proper way to be a good human being. Now you may say "but isn't that all culturally relative?" And of course that's a big dispute. But one of the things that the Cynics did was to try and make a distinction between moral principles that are not culturally based and purity codes that are culturally historically based. And they are similar to each other in ways such that we can often confuse them together. So a good way of understanding this is in terms of more modern language of Guilt versus Shame. Now, again we use these terms interchangeably and we shouldn't because having a distinction between them is useful. Guilt is your distress at having realized [that] you [have] broken a moral principle. Shame is your distress at having violated a purity code. Let me give you an example: If, as I was delivering this video, there was some sort of malfunction in my clothing and my clothing suddenly fell down, I would be deeply embarrassed. I would experience shame. Why? Because I violated a code, a cultural code, which is [that] I'm supposed to be fully clothed in public discourse, and I am, right?! But if that happened, have I done anything immoral? Most of you would say "no, you didn't do anything immora!l You didn't do anything wrong!". So I don't feel guilt I feel shame. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21ja2pyrhvd4geb80zjgjt))
		- **Note**: Guilt is moral, shame is cultural code violation.
	- **[Ptolemaic Empire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ptolemaic_Kingdom)**  
	  The Ptolemaic Kingdom was a Hellenistic kingdom based in ancient Egypt. It was ruled by the Ptolemaic dynasty, which started with Ptolemy I Soter's accession after the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC and which ended with the death of Cleopatra and the Roman conquest in 30 BC. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21k1kj13jxz5escrc0vf9e))
	- **[Seleucid Empire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seleucid_Empire)**  
	  The Seleucid Empire was a Hellenistic state ruled by the Seleucid dynasty which existed from 312 BC to 63 BC; Seleucus I Nicator founded it following the division of the Macedonian Empire vastly expanded by Alexander the Great. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21k3c1rcmc76sr1ha3bzrf))
	- **[The Peloponnesian War](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peloponnesian_War)**  
	  The Peloponnesian War was an ancient Greek war fought by the Delian League led by Athens against the Peloponnesian League led by Sparta. Historians have traditionally divided the war into three phases. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21kc948rrbbb5b9xapmdwk))
	- **[Syncretism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syncretism)**  
	  Syncretism /ˈsɪŋkrətɪzəm/ is the combining of different beliefs, while blending practices of various schools of thought. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21kfftfge9k4fgmzjqfyny))
	- **[Aaron Beck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_T._Beck)**  
	  Aaron Temkin Beck is an American psychiatrist who is professor emeritus in the department of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania. He is regarded as the father of both cognitive therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21kp438m9dvvchwdmxsj67))
	- **[Epictetus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epictetus)**  
	  Epictetus was a Greek Stoic philosopher. He was born a slave at Hierapolis, Phrygia and lived in Rome until his banishment, when he went to Nicopolis in northwestern Greece for the rest of his life. His teachings were written down and published by his pupil Arrian in his Discourses and Enchiridion ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21kv5k5j41fx2trmc9ssn6))
	- **Marcus Aurelius**  
	  Marcus Aurelius was Roman emperor from 161 to 180 and a Stoic philosopher. He was the last of the rulers known as the Five Good Emperors, and the last emperor of the Pax Romana, an age of relative peace and stability for the Roman Empire. He served as Roman consul in 140, 145, and 161 ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21kzj7ep48vm4cn4v30yqr))
	- **[Antisthenes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antisthenes)**  
	  Antisthenes was a Greek philosopher and a pupil of Socrates. Antisthenes first learned rhetoric under Gorgias before becoming an ardent disciple of Socrates. He adopted and developed the ethical side of Socrates' teachings, advocating an ascetic life lived in accordance with virtue. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21m64bywzmdq4t87sgt4kv))
	- **[Elenchus](https://www.thoughtco.com/elenchus-argumentation-1690637)**  
	  In a dialogue, elenchus is the "Socratic method" of questioning someone to test the cogency, consistency, and credibility of what he or she has said. Plural: elenchi. Adjective: elentic. Also known as the Socratic elenchus, Socratic method, or elenctic method. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21m8pqfm7g5bq77erey402))
	- **[Diogenes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diogenes)**  
	  Diogenes, also known as Diogenes the Cynic, was a Greek philosopher and one of the founders of Cynic philosophy. He was born in Sinope, an Ionian colony on the Black Sea, in 412 or 404 BC and died at Corinth in 323 BC. Diogenes was a controversial figure. Aporia as a Philosophical TermIn addition to describing genuine and feigned expressions of doubt, the word "aporia" is also used in a very different sense in the world of philosophy. As a philosophical term, aporia is used to describe a contradiction, paradox, or logical impasse in a text. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21mfv6yggr88bf35bmwra8))
	- **[Cynicism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cynicism_(philosophy))**  
	  A member of a school of ancient Greek philosophers founded by Antisthenes, marked by an ostentatious contempt for ease and pleasure. The movement flourished in the 3rd century BC and revived in the 1st century AD.  
	  Cynicism is a school of thought of ancient Greek philosophy as practiced by the Cynics. For the Cynics, the purpose of life is to live in virtue, in agreement with nature ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21mr736kxbrwtf7x074924))
	- **[Crates of Thebes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crates_of_Thebes)**  
	  Crates of Thebes was a Cynic philosopher. Crates gave away his money to live a life of poverty on the streets of Athens. He married Hipparchia of Maroneia who lived in the same manner that he did. Respected by the people of Athens, he is remembered for being the teacher of Zeno of Citium, the founder of Stoicism ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21mz8dyen25bk442knqktn))
	- **[Zeno of Citium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zeno_of_Citium)**  
	  Zeno of Citium was a Hellenistic philosopher of Phoenician origin from Citium, Cyprus. Zeno was the founder of the Stoic school of philosophy, which he taught in Athens from about 300 BC ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21n4ha18dsf5pranbwpasq))
	- **[Keith E. Stanovich](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keith_Stanovich)**  
	  Keith E. Stanovich (Rationality) is Emeritus Professor of Applied Psychology and Human Development, University of Toronto and former Canada Research Chair of Applied Cognitive Science. His research areas are the psychology of reasoning and the psychology of reading. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx21n8175kxnvds3mwv1gdpy))