title:: Ep. 215 —  RYAN HOLIDAY —  Discipline Is Destiny (highlights)
author:: [[Deep Questions with Cal Newport]]
full-title:: "Ep. 215 —  RYAN HOLIDAY —  Discipline Is Destiny"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/b5f719a9-61f3-415c-8894-31f39f68d196

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Dec 31st, 2022]]
	- Ryan Holiday: How to Be More Disciplined
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Discipline can be broken down into different categories, including physical, emotional, and mental disciplines., * It is important to be aware of the different types of disciplines in order to be successful.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  So I, I really wanted to talk about self discipline, which I think most people believe they don't have enough of.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Do you differentiate between the different flavors of this? Because people only think discipline, there's these broad categories that come up. There's physical obviously, uh, there's self control in terms of addictions and consumptions. There's self control in terms of productive focused application effort. What's the ontology that you find useful with this idea?
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  So I ended up splitting the book in three parts. That's how I'm kind of doing each structure. I'm kind of thinking it even in terms of like beginning intermediate advance. But the way I did it here was, uh, the first is sort of physical discipline. So that's like what you eat. That's what you do. That's what your environment looks like. Then it, then it goes into sort of temperament or the sort of emotional, uh, mental discipline. So focus, you know, controlling your temper, um, you know, uh, push, pushing oneself. And then the third part is kind of a fusing of those together where sort of in the real world, someone is has that sort of almost monk-like or, or transcendent level of self discipline, like kind of under, under fire. So that's, that's kind of the, the structure I was thinking about. And, and you're right. It's self discipline isn't just not doing things. It's also doing some things. So the epigraph of the book, I have a quote from Epic Tetus and he basically is trying to sum up, uh, like two words that, uh, function as your advice for life. These are two words that you should always follow, uh, and observe. And he says it's persist and resist. And so some things you're resisting and then some things you're pushing through and doing. And I like that sort of tension. And to me, it actually kind of does go back to the, the origins of the idea of, uh, of temperance or self discipline. There's kind of a contradiction there. It's this sort of paradox of like do some things, don't do some things. And you've got to know what, which is what and when. Right.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  And so do you think there's the reason why you started with physical for approaching that, whatever that, that tension, that dichotomy is physical, the right entryway. I mean, because it's, it's so clear, you know, I'm exercising on whatever, whatever it is. It's clear. And so that is that meant to be foundational. Is that where people should start?
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  I think so. I mean, unless you're asking me a sort of an editorial question, which it's too late for me to change, if I should have moved, uh, the part two of the book to part one, which I certainly thought about. Um, but no, I do like, I start, so I start with the physical and then I start with like just what time do you wake up in the morning? Or the idea of like starting the day sort of intentionally and deliberately. I make a case for waking up early, but I do think you want to start with, with something very simple, very straightforward, something very clear. Um, you know, if I say like master your emotions, well, what does that actually look like? And what does that mean? That's a vagar, uh, that's a vagar command. And like wake up early, go to sleep, you know, try to get eight hours of sleep every night or, you know, don't eat fatty foods or exercise regularly. Right? Like, I, I wanted to talk about something very concrete, very clear, very tangible, not just because I think it's simple, but I also think momentum or sorry, I think discipline is it's a muscle. So the more disciplines you are able to be in the, I don't even want to call them trivial, but in the, these sort of straightforward parts of your life, I do think it is transferable or the muscle once built allows you to be more disciplined in other facets of your life.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Right. I was thinking about this because we, we did a, a question on the show, I don't know, maybe two weeks ago where someone was asking about being more disciplined. Then of course the short answer was get Ryan's book, but it wasn't out yet. So the longer answer was I ended up stumbling on this construction that, that discipline is not, it's not an adjective, it's more an identity. So instead of saying I'm going to, I need to go apply discipline to this thing I'm doing, it's an identity you build is I'm a disciplined person. Discipline people are then able to actually go forward and do other things with discipline. And if that is true, then the obvious, the physical, the clear is probably a really good way into, into identity building. And the reason why I was thinking about this and I wanted to get your take on this is there seems to be in the last, let's say five years, a pretty powerful online community, I guess we could call it built around discipline. And I'm talking about, uh, Cam Haines, whose book I just read or David Goggins or, uh, Rich Roll, you know, it's really how Rich Roll got started before, before he shifted more, guru, et cetera, these type of characters who, who demonstrate extreme physical typically discipline and it's very popular. It's very popular. And so what's going, I mean, is it, what's this tapping into? Why is this so popular?
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  Well, I, let's say, a monk is equally impressive in terms of their discipline. Let's say to be a, uh, a monk, you know, you take your vow of poverty, you detach from society, you wear your robes, you shave your head, et cetera, you meditate multiple hours a day. Let, let, let's, let's stipulate an environment in which that demands as much discipline as running an ultra marathon, perhaps more. One is much more cinematic than the other, right? One is much more followable than the other. So I do think that's why you see sort of the feats of strength, uh, or the, the sort of physical fitness influencers, uh, this are discipline manifesting itself, whether it's hunting or running or lifting weights or what time you wake up. This is easier to track and watch. So I think there's some just sort of filter bias there. Um, but I, I do think it goes back to the idea that, uh, it is a transferable skill and you, you want to build, you want to build it up. And, and you know, this is why the stoics would talk about taking cold baths or, you know, wearing course clothing. They were trying to build up a kind of a toughness, right? Seneca, Seneca talks about treating the body rigorously so that it's not disobedient to the mind, right? Like if you're the kind of person that can say when your body is tired and you're in the middle of a run and your body's saying, you should stop doing this. It is hard. Uh, and you have the ability to override that. I think that is a skill that then when your phone says, Hey, you should pick me ([Time 0:14:39](https://share.snipd.com/snip/5dc0d5a3-96a7-4901-9348-d8489dd43fad))