title:: Episode #174 ... Simone Weil - The Mathematician (highlights)
author:: [[Philosophize This!]]
full-title:: "Episode \#174 ... Simone Weil - The Mathematician"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/99f466b9-edd1-44e7-b768-199ec1501cf9

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 4th, 2023]]
	- How to Transform Your Experience of the World
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Simone Vay thought about attention more broadly than just willpower and discipline, and there are exercises you can do to develop this kind of attention., * Consent is an important factor in cultivating this type of attention.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Because it's one thing to say, oh, just never identify with a political party and ever join any collective of thought, just be a Rubik's cube of a person, I guess. Easier said than done. And by the way, about this spiritual transformation you keep talking about, how do I go about doing that? I mean, you may be Simone Vay for sure. But me, look, you don't know me. Okay, I got French fries in my car in between the driver's seat and the center console that have been there for literally more than a year. Am I really the guy to do this? You think I got the intestinal fortitude to spiritually transform myself? Well, yes, she thinks we all do. She says ironically, one of the biggest boundaries people face when it comes to reaching deeper levels of this attention is just consent. Meaning people love the idea and theory of having this kind of access to different reads of the world. But in reality, there are actually a lot of obstacles to make it hard for people to truly consent to cultivating this new way of looking at things. And there's exercises you can do if you wanted to develop this kind of attention more. And rest assured, we're going to talk about the one she recommends. But before we talk about those, it's crucially important for us to first understand the way Simone Vay thought about attention more generally. It's something that she thinks is one of the most forgotten and underrated ways in the history of the world of transforming your experience of the things you do. Let's start with an example. Say you want to change something about yourself, whatever it is. What's the first place people usually think that that change is going to occur? Well, your answer to this question will probably be varied based on when and where you live. And the most common answer in the modern Western world, just given the genealogy of ascetic practices in Judeo-Christian culture, the most common answer is going to be that change happens through something like willpower or through discipline. There's, of course, variations in the exact terminology people will use. But just given the classic Western hero's journey way that we typically think about morality, this is just how most people in the Western world are going to answer this. You want to change something about your reality. You take control of your reality. You assert yourself on reality. Say you wanted to read more, but you hate reading. So you assume the only way that's ever going to change is if you have more discipline. You've set an alarm on your phone. You're going to will yourself to read every single day for 30 minutes right when you get off a work. And you know what's going to be hard. You know you're going to have to grit your teeth and fight through it at times. But eventually, with enough strength of the will, you're going to get some momentum behind you. People are going to start noticing, giving you credit for reading more. ([Time 0:24:06](https://share.snipd.com/snip/b2dd0a99-4915-4557-9c03-590b86ac7d3e))