title:: Episode 222 - Stop Obsessing Over Your ROAS With Rabah Rahil of Triple Whale (highlights)
author:: [[eCommerce Evolution]]
full-title:: "Episode 222 - Stop Obsessing Over Your ROAS With Rabah Rahil of Triple Whale"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/7c66e5fe-ce98-4064-a559-0798a42e19f5

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- Multi-Touch Attribution: What It Is, How It Works, and Some Misconceptions
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Multitouch attribution is important, but it's never going to be 100% accurate., * Attribution models can help you understand which channels are most effective in driving traffic and conversions., * It's important to use multiple attribution models to get the most accurate data.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  But candidly, multi-touch attribution is still, still a really hard nut to crack in terms of making sure that that's 100%. And another thing too that you get into is attribution. So there's something called an asymptote where it's basically two lines that we'll never touch but they're always coming closer and closer together until they just get infinitely close but they'll never touch. That's kind of how attribution is, how I see it anyways where it's just never going to be 100%. And so, like, if you come in with that expectation, it's incorrect.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  I don't think that's the point, right? Exactly. That's maybe one of the misconceptions. I'm still on your thunder potential here. But like, the point of multi-touch attribution isn't to get it exactly, right? Because it'll never be right. And to use, I think this is a great analogy. So I used to do offline marketing, like TV, radio, print, stuff like that. It was kind of fun. But if you were approached by a customer that just bought Nike shoes and you said, well, okay, well, what did it for you? Was it the TV ad? Was it the billboard? Was it the magazine ad? The person would be like, I don't know. I just wanted to buy it. I don't know. What did it? Like, there's not really a way to say what moved the needle fully. We can get really pretty close with online stuff, but you'll never fully know. And that's okay. Yep.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeah. And so essentially to wrap that up in a bow is the multi-touch attribution stuff is really, really important. It's awesome. We do it. But ultimately you're going to want to look at different attribution models to your point. And so there's first click, right? Like, okay, I invited Brett to the party. He was the first person that heard about the party. Okay, cool. So, John actually drove Brett to the party. Okay, great. But Sally actually got money from Brett at the door for the party. Who do you give credit to for getting the money? You know, well, is it the person that I invited you? Is it the person that brought you or is it the person that took your money? And so the answer is to your point, like, what do you want to derive from that? And so that's really where we give people a bevy of different attribution options. First click, last click, fractional linear if you want to spread it across and not getting too nerdy in attribution models. But that's ultimately the whole point of having different attribution models is do you want to see who's the best at bringing people to the party? You want to see who's the best as inviting people to the party? You want to see the best as getting money from people at the party? And then you can start to really level up the sophistication in terms of how you're deploying your paid media. Because if you're just operating on last click, so we run a SaaS company, which is totally different than D2C. But if you looked at our analytics, you would say, why aren't you spending more on Google Search? Google Search is closing all this deal for you. You're like, well, is it? You know, that we have a ton of brand equity. We have a ton of these things. And so it's like not to say that Google Search isn't important and you shouldn't have it in your marketing mix. But there's a certain aspect of like thinking through, like to your point, that customer journey and what's going on and then understanding what attribution model is useful to derive the data you're looking for is to me more of the show than saying, hey, we need this perfect multi-touch attribution solution that tracks everybody through the like, it's just fantasy world. And it also gives you a misrepresentation of what's actually causal. Yeah, yeah.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  It's so good. And I love that. I love that party analogy, by the way, because yeah, if you were to look at that and just say like, well, Sally's the one that collected the money, if I remember the name, the name is right. So let's just, let's just pay Sally my, like, let's get rid of Rob. And let's, let's forget about John and like, eventually you got nobody at the party, right? And I think, and I'm a Google ads guy, right? So I love Google ads, but you're right, like, especially for a SaaS company like yours where you got to understand it and it's not like, you know, a $20 a month thing, right? Like you're making it. Exactly. It's very worth it. It's awesome. But it's not, I'm not going to just click on a search ad and buy it right away probably. But it's an important part of the journey. So yeah, you can't just say, well, let's shut everything else off and stop doing podcasts and stop speaking at events and stop doing other stuff. And let's just do Google ads. That would not work for your business, right? You would slow down tremendously. So really, really good. What are some of the, we're already talking about one misconception of trying to get, you know, perfect data because it doesn't exist. ([Time 0:23:00](https://share.snipd.com/snip/e406a552-fb0e-4d48-a783-fe60e0e6105c))