title:: Fahrenheit 451 (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Fahrenheit 451"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/fahrenheit-451-by-ray-bradbury/
document_note:: In Fahrenheit 451, Ray Bradbury explores the consequences of censorship and the emptiness of life without thought. Guy Montag is a fireman who burns books and homes that contain them, but his meeting with Clarisse leads him to steal a book and join a group of intellectuals who have memorized great works. Bradbury critiques the idea of a world where everyone is made equal and political questions are not allowed. He uses the metaphor of books as receptacles of knowledge and understanding, and suggests that quality, leisure, and the ability to act on what is learned are necessary for true happiness. He ultimately suggests that people must take risks to save themselves, and that ultimately, it is the things we do that matter most.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 14th, 2023]]
	- "You always dread the unfamiliar...We must all be alike. Not everyone born free and equal, as the Constitution says, but everyone *made* equal. Each man the image of every other; then all are happy, for there are no mountains to make them cower, to judge themselves against." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs66da44424d4gghqqepw7mp))
	- "No, no, it's not books at all you're looking for! Take it where you can find it, in old phonograph records, old motion pictures, and in old friends; look for it in nature and look for it in yourself. Books were only one type of receptacle where we stored a lot of things we were afraid we might forget. There is nothing magical in them at all. The magic is only in what books say, how they stitched the patches of the universe together into one garment for us. Of course you couldn't know this, of course you still can't understand what I mean when I say all this. You are intuitively right, that's what counts. Three things are missing. Number one: Do you know why books such as this are so important? Because they have quality. And what does the word quality mean? To me it means texture...Telling *detail. Fresh* detail. The good writers touch life often. The mediocre ones run a quick hand over her. The bad ones rape her and leave her for the flies...And the second? Leisure. Oh, but we've plenty of off-hours. Off-hours, yes. But time to think?...And number three: the right to carry out actions based on what we learn from the interaction of the first two." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs66f44cyxsy3zm6dq238wh9))
		- **Note**: Books are important because they have special details that make them interesting. Good writers use these details to make stories come alive. We need time to read and think about books and decide what to do with the information we learn from them. That is why they are so important.
	- People take pride in always "busy" - almost often unnecessarily - that they don't stop and think about what they're actually doing or *why*. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs66g9c4a7e6hrjmsvgdejmv))
	- "That's the good part of dying; when you've nothing to lose, you run any risk you want." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs66gjvsx940125cyb1k7swc))
		- **Tags**: #[[death]] #[[risk]]