title:: Goodhart's Law Isn't as Useful as You Might Think (highlights)
author:: [[Cedric Chin]]
full-title:: "Goodhart's Law Isn't as Useful as You Might Think"
category:: #articles
url:: https://commoncog.com/goodharts-law-not-useful/
document_note:: Goodhart's Law is a phenomenon in which a metric is used as a target, but it does not lead to the desired outcome. Amazon has developed a number of ways to solve for Goodhart's Law through their Weekly Business Review process. This process divides metrics into controllable input metrics and output metrics, focusing on exceptions and trends in controllable input metrics. It also includes trial and error to ensure the right metric is chosen and allows the entire leadership team to share in the same causal model of the business. Other practices, such as having Finance certify the data in the WBR and investigate and dive into metrics, also prevent Goodhart's Law-type situations. In conclusion, Goodhart's Law is solvable at an organisational level.

The people at Amazon are not overwhelmed by reviewing 500 different metrics because they have developed a system in which they focus on controllable input metrics and output metrics, and they have a weekly operational metrics review meeting where they go over 400-500 metrics within 60-90 minutes. Additionally, the WBR process acts as a safety net which allows them to examine relationships between controllable input metrics and corresponding output metrics, and the WBR is administered by a completely autonomous group, the Finance department. These practices allow Amazon staff to quickly and efficiently assess the metrics and make sure they are driving desired outcomes.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Mar 6th, 2023]]
	- Goodhart’s Law is a famous adage that goes “when a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtng2rwa4qppq3j5hx7f2b6v))
	- When people are pressured to meet a target value there are three ways they can proceed:  
	  
	  1) They can work to improve the system  
	  2) They can distort the system  
	  3) Or they can distort the data ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtng8pkrve9750kr0j1887vm))
		- **Tags**: #[[metrics]] #[[data]]
	- 1.  Make it difficult to distort the system.
	  2.  Make it difficult to distort the data, *and*
	  3.  Give people the slack necessary to improve the system (a tricky thing to do, which we’ve [covered elsewhere](https://commoncog.com/process-improvement-is-hard/)). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtngc48ebv7dy82x4jfey68e))
	- Before you can improve any system **you must listen to the voice of the system** (the *Voice of the Process*). Then you must **understand how the inputs affect the outputs of the system**. Finally, you **must be able to change the inputs (and possibly the system) in order to achieve the desired results**. This will require sustained effort, constancy of purpose, and an environment where continual improvement is the operating philosophy.  
	  
	  Comparing numbers to specifications will not lead to the improvement of the process. Specifications are the Voice of the Customer, not the Voice of the Process. **The specification approach does not reveal any insights into how the process works**.  
	  
	  So if you only compare the data to the specifications, then you will be unable to improve the system, and will therefore be left with only the last two ways of meeting your goal (i.e. distorting the system, or distorting the data). When a current value is compared to an arbitrary numerical target (... it) will always create a temptation to make the data look favourable. And distortion is always easier than working to improve the system. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtnhzr718hjj45208gzqrzvj))
		- **Note**: Goodhart's Law suggests that when a measure of a system is used as a target, it will stop being a good measure. This is because focusing on a single number can lead to distortion of the data or the system itself. To truly improve a system, one must first understand how the inputs affect the outputs, and then make changes to the inputs and/or the system itself. Focusing on numerical targets will not lead to improvements, as it does not provide insight into how the process works.
	- What Wheeler is getting at is something deceptively simple, but actually quite profound. Most of us, when faced with a goal, will *fixate on the difference between the current output and our desired target*. In other words, we think the way to hit our goals it to obsess over the goal. A common approach is to work backwards to figure out targets at specific checkpoints, and then say (either to ourselves or to our team) “HIT THOSE TARGETS, COME HELL OR HIGH WATER!” Think of your personal life — say that you want to lose 6kg in three months. The natural thing to do is to set a 2kg weight reduction goal each month, weigh yourself every morning, and then pat yourself on the back if you’re on track to hitting your target reduction for the month, or exercise more / eat less if you’re not. A similar thing might occur in business: “We need to get to 100 new deals by the end of the quarter, which means 33 new deals per month, now GET ON IT!” This is a naive view of process improvement, and while it may work for something as simple as weight control, it is *not* going to work for the kind of complex processes that you would find in a typical business.
	  
	  Why?
	  
	  Business processes are often processes where you don’t know the inputs to your desired output ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtnj56ek9e570be838pp96yn))
		- **Note**: Wheeler is saying that when we want to achieve a goal, it is easy to fixate on the difference between what we have now and what we want to have in the end. For example, if we want to lose 6kg in three months, we might set a goal of losing 2kg each month and weigh ourselves every day to see if we are on track. We might also say to ourselves or our team that we must hit these targets, no matter what. This kind of thinking works for simple things like weight control, but it won't work for more complex things, like what you might find in a typical business. This is because in business, it's hard to know what input will lead to the desired output.
	- Broadly speaking, Amazon divides its metrics into ‘controllable input metrics’ and ‘output metrics’. Output metrics are not typically discussed in detail, because there is no way of directly influencing them. (Yes, Amazon leaders understand that they are evaluated based on their output metrics, but they recognise these are lagging indicators and are not directly actionable). Instead, the majority of discussions during WBR meetings focus on *exceptions and trends in controllable input metrics*. In other words, a metrics owner is expected to explain abnormal variation or a worrying trend (slowing growth rate, say, or if a metric is lagging behind target) — and is expected to announce “nothing to see here” if the metric is within normal variance and on track to hit target. In the latter case, the entire room glances at the metric for a second, and then moves on to the next graph. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtqtm5rbscw1z48sczzc4f22))
	- Any output metric of importance in a business will typically be influenced by multiple input metrics. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtr7172bqkk8gcvj2yz672jc))
	- In the early 2000s, Jeff and CFO Warren Jenson—who was succeeded in 2002 by Tom Szkutak—stated explicitly how critical it was for the finance team to uncover and report the unbiased truth. **Jeff, Warren, and Tom all insisted that, regardless of whether the business was going well or poorly, the finance team should “have no skin in the game other than to call it like they see it,” based on what the data revealed** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtr75f448s75mf3tdm9mexjy))