title:: GUEST SERIES | Dr. Andy Galpin —  Optimal Protocols to Build Strength & Grow Muscles (highlights)
author:: [[Huberman Lab]]
full-title:: "GUEST SERIES | Dr. Andy Galpin —  Optimal Protocols to Build Strength & Grow Muscles"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/c161780f-891e-4065-b7af-5b9f4d5773d8

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 29th, 2023]]
	- The Importance of Strength Training for Older Adults
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Human movement is a function of number one, some sort of neuromuscular activation., * The second part is muscles have to contract and the third part is those muscles have to move a bone., * If you want to be alive and live by yourself, you have to be able to engage in human movement. If you have any dysfunction in the neuromuscular system, you're not going to be able to do that., * And the only way to preserve that or fight that loss of aging is to strength train.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  The way that you want to think about this is resistance exercise and strength training is the number one tool to combat neuromuscular aging. You cannot get that through any other form of exercise besides heavy overload strength training. And we can walk through in detail what that is, but that is reason number one. In general, human movement is a function of number one, some sort of neuromuscular activation. So nerves have to turn on. The second part is muscles have to contract and the third part is those muscles have to move a bone. All right. If you want to be alive and you want to live by yourself, you have to be able to engage in human movement. If you have any dysfunction in the neuromuscular system there, then you're not going to be able to do that. And again, as I mentioned, the only way to preserve that or fight that loss of aging is to strength training. So people will tend to hear numbers like you lose about 1% of muscle size per year after age about 40. And that's true. However, what they don't realize is you lose about 2 to 4% of your strength per year. So the loss of strength is almost double that the loss of muscle mass with aging. Muscle power is more like 8 to 10% per year. And so we can very clearly see the problem you're going to have with aging is not going to be preservation of muscle. Although that is incredibly important, it's going to be very specifically preservation of muscle power and strength. And why that really matters is your ability to again, stand up and move, your ability to catch yourself from a fall, your ability to feel confident doing a movement. That is a function of muscle power more than it is muscle size. And so functionality is really what we want to be, right? ([Time 0:04:20](https://share.snipd.com/snip/bba23ecc-dcb5-451e-9227-6079a91071cf))
	- Consistency beats intensity
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Adherence is an unknown predictor of physical fitness outcomes., * Consistency is key for any training program to work., * Strength, hypertrophy, and muscle development can all be optimized with different training methods.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Okay, so what I would like to actually do is walk you through both of those because as we mentioned before, they overlap, but the training needs to be differentiated so that you can optimize either strength, hypertrophy, or if you actually want, you can get a combination of both. This allows you to then get the adaptation you want, avoid ones you don't want, and then get it even a combination if that's the preference. So a lot of people will talk about, I want to get a little stronger, I want to add some muscle. That's a different answer than someone who wants to truly maximize muscle, which is a different answer from somebody who wants to maximize strength, which is a different answer from somebody who wants to maximize strength, but not actually gain muscle. So we have all these combinations. What's important to understand before we get into the details is a couple of things. Number one, we've been teasing this concept so far of the concepts are few, but the methods are many. I want to hit those concepts right now. These are, as you say, these are the non-negotiables that have to happen in any training program. And I'm referring to these in the strength and hypertrophy conversation, but these are true of power development, speed development, muscular endurance, endurance, any other thing. These are things that just have to happen for any training program to work. I mentioned one a little bit earlier, which was adherence. And so that my frequent collaborator, Dan Garner, will constantly say consistency beats intensity. Again, in fact, the literature will show you very clearly adherence is an unknown predictor of physical fitness outcomes. So we want to do something that you will engage in, you'll put effort into and you'll be able to repeat, because it's single over time. ([Time 1:04:05](https://share.snipd.com/snip/13e498b8-950b-4f94-8140-96b515a23ad8))