title:: GUEST SERIES | Dr. Andy Galpin —  How to Assess & Improve All Aspects of Your Fitness (highlights)
author:: [[Huberman Lab]]
full-title:: "GUEST SERIES | Dr. Andy Galpin —  How to Assess & Improve All Aspects of Your Fitness"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/7ddbee52-aea0-4a38-a6c0-bc45fb022962

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 19th, 2023]]
	- Is There a Balance Between Strength Training and Endurance?
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Endurance athletes can have great endurance, but may not look very strong., * Endurance training and strength training can be beneficial for overall health and functionality., * Older adults should aim to have a VO2 max of around 3538 milliliters per kilogram per minute to be in good shape.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  You know, I'm familiar with seeing endurance athletes that apparently have terrific endurance, but at least to my eye, I don't look like they are particularly strong. I'm also familiar with seeing individuals that are very, very strong, particularly on social media, but that don't look like they could walk up a flight of stairs much less run a mile. Do you have any examples of studies in or outside the laboratory that point to that in a concrete way? There's a lot to have to discuss here, but I'll answer it really clear.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  If you look across the literature, and this is actually back as early as the mid-1950s, in fact, it actually goes back to previous to that to the Harvard Fatigue Lab, 1927 to 1947 area. People actually were advocating at that point a combination of strength training and endurance in the 1920s. Way back then, in fact, it actually goes prior to that in the late 1880s, there was scientific evidence back then. It became more well developed in the mid-1950s and 60s. In fact, there was the initial stages of what's called the exercise as medicine movement, which is the movement now, but the initial stages of that actually route back to the 1950s. And I could actually go into that whole discussion and the story of how that all came about. But that's the health as wealth. Montre, that came from the 1950s from the scientific community then. All those data points are going to suggest you need a combination of some sort of broad strength training and broad endurance. Now, if you have a specific goal five months from now, you want to compete in a race or hit a certain physique thing, that's fine to focus on one area of training. Certainly if you're an athlete, that's different. But if you want to maximize health and overall functionality throughout time, it needs to be a combination. And to really, really highlight this, I can actually talk about a couple of studies that I've done. One of them we actually did in Stockholm, Sweden. So I did this at the Karelensk Institute, which you probably are aware of. It's actually one of the founding places of all of exercise physiology. Generally, it started there. It was called something different back then, but really, our entire field came out of Stockholm and the Karelensk Institute. And we worked with a whole bunch of cross-country skiers that were in their 80s and 90s. And so they were competitive skiers in the 1940s and 50s, and they had been skiing competitively for that entire duration. So you're talking 50 to 60 consecutive years of competing. So there's 80 to 90-year-olds living alone and healthy. And we compared them to a group of individuals here in America who are the same age, but we're not exercising. And what we wanted to do is to see and kind of look at what are these lifelong endurance individuals, what do they look like? When we brought them into the lab, which is, by the way, amazing to do a VO2 max test on a 92-year-old, especially in a language that they don't speak, you're in a... You can imagine you're doing this in the hospital, right? And you're running people through, this is a cycling test. And so for a VO2 max test, you have a mask on your face. You're hooked up to a metabolic cart, so we can collect all the gases that are coming out of your mouth. And you're chanting these people on, and basically every minute, the workload gets harder and harder and harder until you can't complete it. And we're doing this in a cardiology center, and the cardiologists are usually waiting for their heart rate to get slightly elevated, and they stop them because they're 85, 86-years-old. And not only are we not stopping them, but we are screaming in their ears just like, go, go, go. And Swedish or English. In English, right? And then the translator... But it doesn't take a lot of translation when someone's screaming at your face like, go, go, go. So we ran them through a whole bunch of VO2 max tests, and we did the same thing for those folks back here in America. And what was incredibly clear from that study was the VO2 max, you can think about these numbers, and this is what's called relative. So in the relative terms are milliliters per kilogram per minute. And so a standard number is about 18, is what we call the line of independence. So if your VO2 max is below 18 milliliters per kilogram per minute, it's very hard for you to live by yourself. So your fitness is so low. You probably are going to need to have somebody living with you, or you'll need to be in some sort of assisted living home. So if you are in like VO2 max of 20 or 21 or 22, you're not below that line of independence, but you're on that threshold. And so what we found was our folks here in America, the group average was right around that number. So they were living at home by definition. We picked them to be people living by themselves in their 80s, not in a living room, but they didn't have any bandwidth. So if they got a cold or they had anything pop up where they lost a little bit of fitness, they were going to drop below that line and would probably have to go to some sort of assisted living situation. The folks in Stockholm, the cross-country skiers, the group average was most closer to like 35 to 38 milliliters per kilogram per minute. Now that number is about the VO2 max you would find for a normal college male. And so these folks that were literally 80 or 90, if the joke, if the saber tooth tiger ran in the room or whatever and it chased it down, and we all had to run to see who didn't get eaten alive, the college men would probably have gotten eaten before the 90 year olds. And in one case, we had a 92 year old individual and I think his VO2 max was 38, which was in our estimation a world record, the highest VO2 max for somebody over the age of 90. ([Time 0:17:41](https://share.snipd.com/snip/01400ec6-6e7e-4535-aa50-43e0640d1dd8))