title:: Hackers & Painters: Big Ideas From the Computer Age (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Hackers & Painters: Big Ideas From the Computer Age"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/hackers-and-painters/
document_note:: Hackers and painters have many similarities in that they are both trying to make good things. Hacking and painting both require empathy and understanding from different perspectives in order to make great work. Money is not a necessary part of the process and good design should solve the right problem, be simple, and slightly funny. Good design also requires a dictator for it to be cohesive and it is often daring and strange. Finally, people who do good work often have doubts about their work.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 19th, 2023]]
	- If you want to make money at some point, remember this, because this is one of the reasons startups win. Big companies want to decrease the standard deviation of design outcomes because they want to avoid disasters. But when you damp oscillations, you lose the high points as well as the low. This is not a problem for big companies, because they don’t win by making great products. Big companies win by sucking less than other big companies. So if you can figure out a way to get in a design war with a company big enough that its software is designed by product managers, they’ll never be able to keep up with you. These opportunities are not easy to find, though. It’s hard to engage a big company in a design war, just as it’s hard to engage an opponent inside a castle in hand to hand combat. It would be pretty easy to write a better word processor than Microsoft Word, for example, but Microsoft, within the castle of their operating system monopoly, probably wouldn’t even notice if you did. The place to fight design wars is in new markets, where no one has yet managed to establish any fortifications. That’s where you can win big by taking the bold approach to design, and having the same people both design and implement the product. Microsoft themselves did this at the start. So did Apple. And Hewlett-Packard. I suspect almost every successful startup has. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskb6e4gp7n3p4ypy5s3jh8n))
		- **Note**: Big companies don't usually make great products or win by making great products. Instead, they try to make sure they don't make bad products. But this also means that they don't make amazing products. If you are able to find a way to compete with a big company in a design war, you can beat them because their software is usually managed by product managers who won't be able to keep up with you. However, it's not easy to find a big company to compete against. It's like trying to fight someone inside a castle. The best way to win with design is in new markets where no one has yet built a strong defense. That's when you can have a lot of success with design by having the same people both design and make the product. Companies like Microsoft, Apple, and Hewlett-Packard all did this in the beginning and it worked out well for them.
	- A startup is not merely ten people, but ten people like you. Steve Jobs once said that the success or failure of a startup depends on the first ten employees. I agree. Being small is not, in itself what makes startups kick butt, but rather that small groups can be select. Startups have leverage because they make money by inventing new technology. What is technology? It’s technique. It’s the way we all do things. And when you discover a new way to do things, its value is multiplied by all the people who use it. Even giant corporations like McDonald’s or Wal Mart can be said to create technology. A McDonald’s franchise is controlled by rules so precise that it is practically a piece of software. Write once, run everywhere. Ditto for Wal-Mart. Sam Walton got rich not by being a retailer, but by designing a new kind of store ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskb7mt1fth94maafgcjzg2z))
	- Once you start to examine the question, it’s surprising how much different fields’ ideas of beauty have in common. The same principles of good design crop up again and again. Good design is simple. Everything above simplicity is evasion. When you can’t deliver ornament, you have to deliver substance. Good design is timeless. Good design solves the right problem. Good design is suggestive. Good design is often slightly funny. I think it is because humor is related to strength. To have a sense of humor is to be strong: to keep one’s sense of humor is to shrug off misfortunes, and to lose one’s sense of humor is to be wounded by them. Good design is hard. If function is hard enough, form is forced to follow it, because there is no effort to spare for error. Wild animals are beautiful because they have hard lives. Good design looks easy. Like great athletes, great designers make it look easy. Mostly this is an illusion. In science and engineering, some of the greatest discoveries seem so simple that you say to yourself, I could have thought of that! In most fields the appearance of ease seems to come with practice. Perhaps what practice does is train your unconscious mind to handle tasks that used to require conscious thought. In some cases you literally train your body. An expert pianist can play notes faster than the brain can send signals to his hand. Likewise, an artist, after a while, can make visual perception flow in through his eye and out through his hand as automatically as someone tapping his foot to a beat. When people talk about being in “the zone,” I think what they mean is that the spinal cord has the situation under control. Your spinal cord is less hesitant, and it frees conscious thought for the hard problems. Good design uses symmetry (repetition and recursion). Nature uses them a lot, which is a good sign. The danger of symmetry, and repetition especially, is that it can be used as a substitute for thought. Good design resembles nature. It’s not so much that resembling nature is intrinsically good as that nature has had a long time to work on the problem. It’s not cheating to copy. Good design is redesign. It’s rare to get things right the first time. Experts expect to throw away some early work. Mistakes are natural. Instead of treating them as disasters, make them easy to acknowledge and easy to fix. Good design can copy. It is more important to be right than original. Unknowing imitation is almost a recipe for bad design. The ambitious are not content to imitate. The second phase in the growth of taste is a conscious attempt at originality but are selfless and confident enough to take from anyone without feeling that their own vision will be lost in the process. Good design is often strange. The only style worth having is the one you can’t help. And this is especially true for strangeness. Good design happens in chunks. Nothing is more powerful than a community of talented people working on related problems. Genes count for little by comparison: being a genetic Leonardo was not enough to compensate for having been born near Milan instead of Florence. Good design is often daring, teetering on the border of ostracism. This problem afflicts not just every era, but in some degree every field. Today’s experimental error is tomorrow’s new theory. If you want to discover great new things, then instead of turning a blind eye to the places where conventional wisdom and truth don’t quite meet, you should pay particular attention to them. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskb925ka1c9dhyw880ctn03))
		- **Note**: When we look at different kinds of art, we find that there are some ideas of beauty that many people agree on. We call these ideas "good design". Good design is when something looks simple and is built to last forever. It can also be funny, which is related to being strong. To have a good sense of humor is to stay strong, even when things don't go your way. Good design also looks like something from nature, and it often takes a lot of work to make it look easy. Good design can also be strange, and it's important to be brave and try something new, even if it's not popular.
	- The difference between design and research seems to be a question of new versus good. Design doesn’t have to be new, but it has to be good. Research doesn’t have to be good, but it has to be new ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskbghwevka4s3t062nqaazs))
	- Notice all this time I’ve been talking about “the designer.” Design usually has to be under the control of a single person to be any good. And yet it seems to be possible for several people to collaborate on a research project. This seems to me one of the most interesting differences between research and design. Design by committee is a synonym for bad design. Good design requires a dictator. One reason is that good design has to be all of a piece. Design is not just for humans, but for individual humans. If a design represents an idea that fits in one person’s head, then the idea will fit in the user’s head too. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskbhthc03fsant6zfehn94h))
		- **Note**: This passage talks about the difference between research and design. It says that design usually needs to be done by one person to be good, but research can be done by several people. Design by committee (a lot of people working together) is usually bad. Good design needs a leader, so that the design fits together and makes sense. Design also needs to be for a specific person, not just for humans in general. If a design makes sense in the designer's head, it will also make sense for the user.