title:: Henry David Thoreau (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Henry David Thoreau"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/walden/
document_note:: Henry David Thoreau encourages people to live simply and deliberately to discover the essential facts of life and to make the most of their existence. He believes that truth is more important than money, fame, or love and that men often choose their way of life out of ignorance and mistake. In his own experience, he was able to maintain himself for five years by working only six weeks a year, showing that living simply can lead to a higher quality of life. He also encourages self-reflection and understanding of oneself, suggesting that what a man thinks of himself is what determines his fate. He argues that luxuries and comforts can be hindrances to the elevation of mankind and that the wisest have always lived a simpler life than the poor. Finally, he believes that it is possible to live a life of purpose and that if one is conscious of their own endeavors, they can elevate their life.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 13th, 2023]]
	- "**Men have become the tools of their tools."** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs517bh1426gm9knkd57nbhn))
	- "Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs517f3xzhkthxg06xbk9wpp))
	- "Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs517r4jxaeg2n2fzcs0ary3))
	- "In short, I am convinced, both by faith and experience, that to maintain one's self on this earth is not a hardship but a pastime, if we will live simply and wisely; as the pursuits of the simpler nations are still the sports of the more artificial. It is not necessary that a man should earn his living by the sweat of his brow, unless he sweats easier than I do." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs5181sfvp4k5hnba99yw75c))
		- **Note**: Henry David Thoreau believed that if we live simply and wisely, we can maintain ourselves on this earth without having to work too hard. He thought it was possible to live without needing to work a lot, unless someone was able to work very easily.
	- Last paragraph of this chapter is very powerful - "The authority of government, even such as I am willing to submit to—for I will cheerfully obey those who know and can do better than I, and in many things even those who neither know nor can do so well—is still an impure one: to be strictly just, it must have the sanction and consent of the governed. It can have no pure right over my person and property but what I concede to it. The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual. Even the Chinese philosopher was wise enough to regard the individual as the basis of the empire. Is a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible in government? Is it not possible to take a step further towards recognizing and organizing the rights of man? **There will never be a really free and enlightened State until the State comes to recognize the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its own power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly**. I please myself with imagining a State at least which can afford to be just to all men, and to treat the individual with respect as a neighbor; which even would not think it inconsistent with its own repose if a few were to live aloof from it, not meddling with it, nor embraced by it, who fulfilled all the duties of neighbors and fellow-men. A State which bore this kind of fruit, and suffered it to drop off as fast as it ripened, would prepare the way for a still more perfect and glorious State, which also I have imagined, but not yet anywhere seen." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs5190k0x5450ytpc5fekgt5))
		- **Note**: The government should treat people with respect and fairness. Even though it has some power over us, it should have our permission to do so. In the past, governments have become more respectful of individuals as time has gone on. But, even today, there are no governments that truly recognize and protect the rights of all people. To be truly free and enlightened, the government must see each individual as a powerful and independent person who should be treated with respect. Until this happens, there will never be a truly free and enlightened state.
	- The Bean-Field
	  
	  •   He loves his very large bean garden. He feels like it connects him to earth and is calming
	  •   "But labor of the hands, even when pursued to the verge of drudgery, is perhaps never the worst form of idleness. It has a constant and imperishable moral, and to the scholar it yields a classic result."
	  
	  •   Visits the village every once in a while like others visit the forests. instead of observing birds and other animals, he is observing people
	  •   "I am convinced, that if all men were to live as simply as I then did, thieving and robbery would be unknown. These take place only in communities where some have got more than is sufficient while others have not enough."
	  •   "The virtues of a superior man are like the wind; the virtues of a common man are like the grass—the grass, when the wind passes over it, bends." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs51aw36nanfy3jyx7cac86r))
		- **Note**: Henry David Thoreau loves his very large bean garden. He thinks it connects him to the earth and makes him feel calm. He believes that even doing hard work can be better than doing nothing. He visits the village like other people visit the forests. Instead of looking at birds and other animals, he looks at people. He believes that if everyone lived as simply as he did, there would be no stealing or robbing. He compares the virtues of a superior man to the wind, and the virtues of a common man to the grass. When the wind passes over the grass, it bends.
	- The Ponds
	  
	  •   Describes Walden Pond in great detail - a big and beautiful lake with supremely pure water and a wide variety of animals
	  •   Also describes other ponds close by
	  
	  •   Speaks to an Irish farmer who lives nearby. He works so hard so he and his family can have tea, coffee, beef, cheese, etc. everyday. However, the family's very hard work to acquire these things cause them to eat much more of these things and therefore require harder work. It is a vicious cycle and Henry tries to convince him that there are other modes of life - simpler living - where he might not eat as well but will enjoy life's other luxurious much more
	  
	  •   "I found in myself, and still find, an instinct toward a higher, or, as it is named, spiritual life, as do most men, and another toward a primitive rank and savage one, and I reverence them both. I love the wild not less than the good. The wildness and adventure that are in fishing still recommended it to me. I like sometimes to take rank hold on life and spend my day more as the animals do."
	  •   Was mostly vegetarian and believed in eating very little - "I believe that every man who has ever been earnest to preserve his higher or poetic faculties in the best condition has been particularly inclined to abstain from animal food, and from much food of any kind."
	  •   "I would fain keep sober always; and there are infinite degrees of drunkenness. I believe that water is the only drink for a wise man; wine is not so noble a liquor; and think of dashing the hopes of a morning with a cup of warm coffee, or of an evening with a dish of tea! Ah, how low I fall when I am tempted by them! Even music may be intoxicating. Such apparently slight causes destroyed Greece and Rome, and will destroy England and America. Of all curiosity, who does not prefer to be intoxicated by the air he breathes?"
	  •   "All sensuality is one, though it takes many forms; all purity is one. It is the same whether a man eat, or drink, or cohabit, or sleep sensually. They are but one appetite, and we only need to see a person do any one of these things to know how great a sensualist he is. The impure can neither stand nor sit with purity."
	  
	  •   Speaks of the various different animal species which lived in the woods around him and even in his own home
	  •   Described an ant battle which he says was more engaging and courageous than any battle in human history
	  
	  •   speaks of when it started to get cold and how he built his chimney and insulated his house
	  
	  •   Spoke to some of the people who lived nearby him at Walden
	  •   "A farmer, a hunter, a soldier, a reporter, even a philosopher, may be daunted; but nothing can deter a poet, for he is actuated by pure love."
	  •   "How blind that cannot see serenity!" ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs51ck2jsankqzzbh3m7xfa6))
		- **Note**: Henry David Thoreau described Walden Pond in great detail. He said it was a big and beautiful lake with very clean water, and there were lots of different animals living there. He also spoke to an Irish farmer who lived nearby. The farmer worked very hard to get food for his family, but it was a never-ending cycle. Henry suggested a simpler way of life where he would not have as much food, but would enjoy other luxuries more. He believed that being too focused on material things was a bad thing. He also liked to observe animals and noticed them doing things that most people wouldn't notice. In the winter, he cut up the ice to get fish and sold it. He also spoke to the people who lived near him and said that a poet is motivated by love. Lastly, he said that peace and quiet were very important.
	- Spring
	  
	  •   Ice on pond begins to break apart and speaks to the very loud noises it makes when the ice breaks up
	  •   Describes other spring events as well - growing of trees, animals coming back out of hibernation, etc.
	  •   Left Walden Pond on September 6, 1847 after living there for 2 years and 2 months
	  
	  •   "Some are dinning in our ears that we Americans, and moderns generally, are intellectual dwarfs compared with the ancients, or even the Elizabethan men. But what is that to the purpose? A living dog is better than a dead lion. Shall a man go and hang himself because he belongs to the race of pygmies, and not be the biggest pygmy that he can? Let every one mind his own business, and endeavor to be what he was made. Why should we be in such desperate haste to succeed and in such desperate enterprises? If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. It is not important that he should mature as soon as an apple tree or an oak. Shall he turn his spring into summer?"
	  •   "In sane moments we regard only the facts, the case that is. Say what you have to say, not what you ought. Any truth is better than make-believe."
	  •   "However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode; the snow melts before its door as early in the spring. I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there, and have as cheering thoughts, as in a palace. The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any. Maybe they are simply great enough to receive without misgiving."
	  •   "Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul."
	  
	  •   Against government and wants as little government as possible. He thinks that in an ideal world there would be no government at all
	  •   "I heartily accept the motto,—"That government is best which governs least"; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe,—"That government is best which governs not at all"; and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have."
	  •   "I cannot for an instant recognize that political organization as my government which is the slave's government also."
	  •   "Even voting for the right is doing nothing for it. It is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail. A wise man will not leave the right to the mercy of chance, nor wish it to prevail through the power of the majority. There is but little virtue in the action of masses of men. When the majority shall at length vote for the abolition of slavery, it will be because they are indifferent to slavery, or because there is but little slavery left to be abolished by their vote. They will then be the only slaves. Only his vote can hasten the abolition of slavery who asserts his own freedom by his vote."
	  •   "I came into this world, not chiefly to make this a good place to live in, but to live in it, be it good or bad."
	  •   "For it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be: what is once well done is done forever. But we love better to talk about it: that we say is our mission."
	  •   Spent a night in prison for not paying poll tax - however, he felt it was amusing and an interesting experience
	  •   "When I came out of prison—for some one interfered, and paid that tax—I did not perceive that great changes had taken place on the common, such as he observed who went in a youth and emerged a tottering and gray-headed man; and yet a change had to my eyes come over the scene—the town, and State, and country—greater than any that mere time could effect. I saw yet more distinctly the State in which I lived. I saw to what extent the people among whom I lived could be trusted as good neighbors and friends; that their friendship was for summer weather only; that they did not greatly propose to do right; that they were a distinct race from me by their prejudices and superstitions..." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gs51gvs5y1x2tbnrharvbx7c))
		- **Note**: Spring is a special time when the ice on Walden Pond begins to break apart, making loud noises. During this time, trees start to grow, animals come out of hibernation, and it's time for Henry David Thoreau to leave. Thoreau believed that everyone should be their best self, no matter what. He also thought that government should be kept to a minimum and that people should take care of each other. He even spent a night in prison for not paying a tax but he still thought it was an interesting experience. He learned that his neighbors were not always trustworthy and that he needed to be careful.