title:: Here’s Our Plan and We Don’t Know — With Tristan Harris, Aza Raskin and Stephanie Lepp (highlights)
author:: [[Your Undivided Attention]]
full-title:: "Here’s Our Plan and We Don’t Know — With Tristan Harris, Aza Raskin and Stephanie Lepp"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/92d3c381-5fd4-4334-a0d9-b5a6415eacaf

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 28th, 2023]]
	- The existential game
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Daniel Schmachtenberger talked about the broader predicament that we're in, and how our economic system organizes incentives., * He brought up the point that can you have world peace? With a four profit military industrial complex, where you have to have growth in arm sales every year, maybe, but notice that you have to have growth in a four profit arm sector every year to have health in a world where you have a four profit ma industry that wants to sell people more drugs every single year and create, in the us, one of the most medicated countries on earth?, * Can you have humane technology that's oriented around people's off line lives and experiences, when that's not nearly as profitable as social media, that organizes people's behavior for as many on line experiences as possible?, ..., * Once you see that, you start seeing how there's a part of it. That's disenchanting, right?, * But there's also a clarifying.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  And i remember crossing two 80 and i was listening to this podcast someone had sent me with daniel schmachtenberger. And i think it was called the existential game. And it was really about the broader predicament that we're in in the way that our economic system organizes incentives. He brought up the point, you know, can you have world peace? With a four profit military industrial complex, where you have to have growth in arm sales every year, maybe, but notice that you have to have growth in a four profit arm sector every year a can you have health in a world where you have a four profit ma industry that wants to sell people more drugs every single year and create, in the us, one of the most medicated countries on earth? Can you have humane technology that's oriented around people's off line lives and experiences, when that's not nearly as profitable as social media, that organizes people's behavior for as many on line experiences as possible? Virtualized identity, virtual ized human interaction. I saw that the problems that we're seeing around the world, whether it's deforestation or plastics or climate change or social media driving these negative trends, were all part of a kind of win loose game, where if i don't do it, the other guy will, with a perverse incentive. So we don't have a thousand different environmental problems or farma problems, or food problems or tech problems. We just have what he calls these generator functions of exitential risk u and. And once you see that, you start seeing how there's a part of it. That's disenchanting, right? Because one part of it is, oh my god, how do we stop that? And then there's the other part of it, though, that's clarifying and empowering, which is, am you start seeing that there's a cor set of reasons why we keep producing plastic, even though we know it's ruining the planet, or why we keep deforesting even though we know we should stop. And why, you know, we shouldn't create social media engagement that goes that low in the brain stem, that manipulates people and personalizes so much that it causes polarization. But we have to have a growth paradime on top of social media engagement. So there's a kind of a clarifying aspect to that realization. And specifically, what i remember is, i knew about externalities, but daniel talked a lot about how as different agents are racing to do their extraction, whether it's extraction of generating plastics or racing to pull attention out of human beings with more and more efficiency across the board, its you get more efficient profits by socializing the cost so you privately profit, and then the costs show up on society's balance sheets. You extract the attent with personalized a i but then the cost to society of a broken, sheared reality that doesn't show up on face book's balance sheet as a trillion dollar cost of breaking democracy, that shows up on society's balance sheet as democracies that don't work any more. And when i saw that, and just even the notion of externalities at sexually, were at center for commune technology, we came up with the project called the ledger of harms, which was meant to accumulate ledger of unaccounted for costs on to society's balance sheet from technology. And that included mental health, alienation, loneliness, conspiracy thinking, polarization. And that was just a big insight of basically, this is the system, this is the collective system that produces kind of our existential game for whether we as a species make it. And frankly, you know, we had had those conversations back in two thousand 17 imember as a, you know, rushing back into the common sense media office and telling you and randy, like, i had just listened to this mine blowing podcast wand i was like, we have to start the ledger of harms. And you all have to listen to this. And we have to figure out a way that ere going to deal with the accidential game. And and how do we actually narrowly focus on social media when this is a set of problems that's consistent across the entirety of how, you know, are our society is structured?
	  
	  Speaker 3
	  Asa doyou triston sharing that episode with you.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  I do remember, because i was driving up to grass valley for my birthday. And there is one line in particular that really struck me. And that was, there is a line about what is the value of a tree? And daniel in this episode is walking through it, a tree's, well, it's really hard to measure, but yo tree is providing shade for you and other animals. It's providing an ecosystem, like thereis a whole root system, and there are bugs and insects in there. It's providing nutrients to the other trees that are connected to it. ([Time 0:04:23](https://share.snipd.com/snip/1eb72bb4-0182-4110-9dc6-30a775fb25f1))