title:: Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/hooked/
document_note:: Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products is a practical, actionable playbook on how to create habit-forming products. It outlines the Hooked Model, which is a cycle of trigger (internal or external), action, variable reward and investment phases that, when followed consecutively, can lead to unprompted user engagement. Companies must seek to create habits by making the action easy for users to perform and increasing the psychological motivation to do it. Variable rewards, such as rewards of the tribe, the hunt, and the self, can be used to create cravings. The investment phase involves getting users to invest something into the product, such as time, data, effort, or money, to make it more engaging. The Latticework provides a summary of the book.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- **Trigger**
	  
	  1.  A trigger is the actuator of behaviour—the spark plug in the engine.
	  2.  Triggers come in two types: external and internal. Habit-forming products start by alerting users with external triggers like an e-mail, a Web site link, or the app icon on a phone.
	  3.  Internal triggers manifest automatically in your mind. Connecting internal triggers with a product is the brass ring of habit-forming technology. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt0z7g4a63bty1a0x9m78w05))
		- **Note**: Habit-forming products use triggers to get users to engage with them. Triggers can be external, such as an email, a website link, or an app icon, and internal, which manifest in the user's mind. Connecting internal triggers to a product is the ultimate goal of habit-forming technology.
	- **Action**
	  
	  1.  Following the trigger comes the action: the behaviour is done in anticipation of a reward. The simple act of clicking on an interesting picture in her news feed takes Barbra to a Web site called Pinterest, a “social bookmarking site with a virtual pinboard.”9 This phase of the Hook, as described in chapter 3, draws upon the art and science of usability design to reveal how products drive specific user actions. Companies leverage two basic pulleys of human behaviour to increase the likelihood of an action occurring: the ease of performing an action and the psychological motivation to do it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt107jnjf6e7acjzfvy5z9sz))
		- **Note**: The Hook model describes the action phase as the behavior that is done in anticipation of a reward. Companies use two pulleys of human behavior - ease of performing an action and psychological motivation - to increase the likelihood of an action occurring. This is done through leveraging the art and science of usability design to drive specific user actions.
	- **Variable Reward**
	  
	  1.  What distinguishes the Hooked Model from a plain vanilla feedback loop is the Hook’s ability to create a craving. Feedback loops are all around us, but predictable ones don’t create desire. The unsurprising response of your fridge light turning on when you open the door doesn’t drive you to keep opening it repeatedly. However, add some variability to the mix—suppose a different treat magically appears in your fridge every time you open it—and voilà, intrigue is created. Variable rewards are one of the most powerful tools companies implement to hook users; ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1ap8k6h95fyyyhh0vngafe))
	- My answer to the vitamin versus painkiller question: Habit-forming technologies are both. These services seem at first to be offering nice-to-have vitamins, but once the habit is established, they provide an ongoing pain remedy. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1ap1ygq3wedwk91tr9zfm4))
	- The factors that influence a task’s difficulty. These are Time—how long it takes to complete an action. Money—the fiscal cost of taking an action. Physical effort—the amount of labour involved in taking action. Brain cycles—the level of mental effort and focus required to take an action. Social deviance—how accepted the behaviour is by others. Non-routine—according to Fogg, “How much the action matches or disrupts existing routines.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1apefy1069pn0vztkt7tc5))
	- the most habit-forming products and services utilize one or more of the three variable reward types: the tribe, the hunt, and the self. In fact, many habit-forming products offer multiple variable rewards. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1anq66qns08xk9wmcsanr6))
	- The more users invest time and effort into a product or service, the more they value it. In fact, there is ample evidence to suggest that our labour leads to love. Together, the three tendencies just described influence our future actions: The more effort we put into something, the more likely we are to value it; we are more likely to be consistent with our past behaviours; and finally, we change our preferences to avoid cognitive dissonance. These tendencies of ours lead to a mental process known as rationalization, in which we change our attitudes and beliefs to adapt psychologically. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1anagsx9kadwhhqgx3has4))
		- **Note**: This document explains how our preferences can be changed to form habits. It states that our labor leads to love and that our past behaviours and efforts influence our future actions. It suggests that rationalization - a mental process where we change our attitudes and beliefs to fit our actions - is a result of these tendencies.
	- Walk through the path your users would take to use your product or service, beginning from the time they feel their internal trigger to the point where they receive their expected outcome. How many steps does it take before users obtain the reward they came for? How does this process compare with the simplicity of some of the examples described in this chapter? How does it compare with competing products and services? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1an24qyphm27t0n9awhfx8))
	- Review the steps your customer takes to use your product or service habitually. What outcome (reward) alleviates the user’s pain? Is the reward fulfilling, yet leaves the user wanting more? Brainstorm three ways your product might heighten users’ search for variable rewards using: rewards of the tribe—gratification from others. rewards of the hunt—material goods, money, or information. rewards of the self—mastery, completion, competency, or consistency. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1amqx9snx3bna3hj5y39tc))