title:: How to Enhance Your Gut Microbiome for Brain & Overall Health | Episode 61 (highlights)
author:: [[Huberman Lab]]
full-title:: "How to Enhance Your Gut Microbiome for Brain & Overall Health | Episode 61"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/8ac1869c-4dd4-4da2-b921-f59f11ebd748

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- The Gut Brain Axis
	  
	  Summary:
	  Your digestive system begins at your mouth and ends at your anus. All along its length, there are a series of sphinxers that cut off certain chambers of digestive tract from the other chambers. There is great variation in the degree of acidity, or p h as it's sometimes called. That variation in acidity turns out to give rise to different little micro environments in which particular micro bioda, micro bacteria, can thriv or fail to thrive. Certain behaviors that you undertake and certain experiences that you have will adjust those micro environments in ways that make particular microbiota, certain bacteria, more likely to thrive and others less likely to thrive.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Know by now, if you're listeners of this podcast, and if you don't, that's fine, your nervous system includes your brain and your spinal cord. And those together constitute whatis called the central nervous system. Your neural retinas, which are the lining the back of your eyes and are the light sensing portion of your eyes, are also part of your central nervous system. So actually, eyes are part of your brain. They 're the only parts of your brain that are outside the cranial vault. So your retinas, your brain proper and your spinal cord make up the central nervous system. The other parts of your nervous system constitute what's called the peripheral nervous system, which are the components of your nervous system that reside outside the retinas, brain and spinal cord. Now this is very important, because today we are going to talk a lot about how the gut communicates with the brain. And it does that by way of peripheral nervous system components, meaning nerve cells that reside in the gut and elsewhere in the body, that communicate to the brain and cross into the central nervous system to influence what you think and what you feel. So that's the nervous system, part of what we call the gut brain axis. Brain, again, just being a shorthand for including all the elements i just described. Gut, as you now know, includes all the elements of the digestive tract. Let's talk about architecture, the structure ([Time 0:11:27](https://share.snipd.com/snip/f1bba77e-fa8c-4f54-b50c-0c640c94717a))
	- What Is The Signal?
	  
	  Summary:
	  Neuromodulators are similar to neuro transmitters, but they tend to act more broadly. They go by names like dopomin seratonan aseto, coline, epineron and so forth. And it also has to do with this subconscious processing of taste that occurs in the gut itself. When i say gut, i don't just mean in the stomach. There are actually neurons, neuropod cells, further down your digestive tract which are signalling your brain about the presence of sweet foods or fatty acids.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  How do we know that? Well, the bohorkas lab has performed experiments using modern methods and their classic experiments, showing that animals and humans will actively seek out more of a particular sweet food, even if it by passes this taste system. And the reverse is also true. There have been experiments done in animals and in humans that have allowed animals or humans to select and eat sweet foods. And indeed, that's what they do if they're given the option and yet to somehow eliminate the activation of these neurons within the gut that can sense sweet foods. Now there're a couple difernt ways that those experiments have been done. Classic experiments that date back to the eighties, this was done by what's called sub diaphragmatic vagotome. So this means cutting off the branch of the vagus that enervates the gut below the diaphragm, so that the other organs can still function, because the vagus is very important. But basicly, cutting off the sweet sensing in the gut, still giving people the opportunity to sweet food with their mouth. And they don't actively seek out quite as much of the sweet food when they don't have this gut sensing mechanism that we now know to be dependent on these neuropod cells. More recent experiments involve selective silencing of these neuropod cells. And there've bee a lot of different derivations ([Time 0:31:11](https://share.snipd.com/snip/c19df63f-df63-4944-9bfd-9299037c5120))
	- Is There [[Free Will]]?
	  
	  Summary:
	  The next time you find yourself wanting a particular sweet thing, or something that contains a lot of ameno acids, keep in mind that that's not just about the taste. But it's also about this subconscious signalling that's coming from your body all the time. waves of hormons, waves of nerve cell signals, electrical signals,. that are changing the way your brain works.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  On diet, depends on what you eat or drink. And that the g p one pathway does seem particularly sensitive to the constituents of diet. There is at least one quality study i was able to find showing that the kitogenic diet, for instance, which almost always involves ingestion of very low levels of carbohydrate, can increase g l p one. Although, as i mentioned, be there are other foods that fall outside the range of what we would consider quito genit that can also stimulate g p one. And as i mention, there re prescription drugs like semaglutide. Ther are other ones as well now that stimulate g p one. So how does g p one reduce appetite? It does that in part by changing the activity of neurons. And the hypothalmis, this ster of neurons just above the roof of our mouth that themselves make g l p one, and that cause the activation of motor circuits for reaching, chewing, all the things that we associate with feeding behavior. So i used g l p one as an example of a pathway that you might choose to tap into by ingestion of your bamante or byingestion of the foods i mentioned, or, if it's something that interests you, ketogenic diet. But i also mention it simply because it's another beautiful example of how a hormon pathway can impact the activity of brain circuits that are directly involved in a particular behavior. So yet another example of gut is communicating to brain in order to change what we think we want, or to change what our actual behaviors are. So the next time you find yourself ([Time 0:41:49](https://share.snipd.com/snip/7334ca61-bdd6-4eec-b402-70188c83dce6))
	- How the Gut and the Brain Communicate?
	  
	  Summary:
	  The way that the gut and the brain communicates is both chemical and mechanical. if ever you've eaten too much, or you've eaten something that doesn't agree with you, that information is communicated by way of mechano censors. So we've got chemical signalling and mechanical signalling. And i also want to emphasize that we have direct and indirect signalling from the gut to the brain. It can be both for sake of increasing certain types of behavior to day.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  And in neural language, we call those spikes spikes of action potentials. Spikes of ac potentials, meaning those neural signals cause the release of chemicals in the brain like dopamin. So it's chemical transmission. Similarly, hormones, even though they act more slowly, hormons, like neuro peptide y, like c c k, like grellin, they are signalling chemically. Their moving through the body, their going in, their affecting the chemical output of different cells, and their changing the chemistry of those cells and the chemistry of the cells that those cells talk to. So that gives us one particular category of signalling from gut to brain, which is chemical signalling. But course, there are other forms of signals, and those fall under the category of mechanical signalling. You're probably familiar with this if you've ever eaten a very large meal or consumed a lot of fluid, you experience that as distension of the gut. And that doesn't just have to be distension of the stomach, but distension of your intestines as well. That distension is registered by neurons that reside in your gut. The signals go up to your brain and communicate with areas of the brain that are responsible for suppressing further consumption of food and or fluid. And under certain circumstances, can also be associated with the act ation of neural circuits that cause vomiting, or the desire to vomit. So if ever you've eaten too much, or you've eaten something that doesn't agree ([Time 0:46:26](https://share.snipd.com/snip/d624fe59-956c-48ac-90ae-6083a8b950bd))
	- Probiotics and Brain Fog
	  
	  Summary:
	  Probiotics and pre biotics, both of which can enhance microbital diversity. Can improve mood, digestion, immune system and so on. Excessive microbiota brought about by excessive intake of probiotics could lead to things like brain fog. Certain metabolites of the microbiome, certain chemicals produced in the gut may actually lead to brain fog states. This is thought to come about through the lactate pathways of the gut that can then impact the brain.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Of depressive symptoms. They did hy throu putgen sequencing of the microbiums of individuals. So that meant measuring the microbiota, figuring out which microbiota were present, how diverse their microbium was. In general, got microbium diversity is a good thing. And then to correlate that with h called the p a n a s score. P a n a s stands for positive affect, negative affect schedule. This is a test that my lab is used extensively, that other labs use to evaluate mood and well being. And they defined what were what were called three interotypes, three different categories of people that ate very different ats, that tended to fall into categories of having more or fewer emotional symptoms that were negative, or more or fewer emotional symptoms that were positive, and whether or not they tend to be more depressed, anxious, or have more stress related behaviors, et cetera. And what they were able to derive from the study was some strong indications about what types of things we should ingest in our diet, maybe even certain things that we should avoid, but certainly the types of things that we should injest that can enhance mood and well being and can tend to shift people away from more depressive like anxiety and stress related symptoms. Before we get into what the particular food items were that lend themselves to a healthy microbiom, i want to raise a bigger and perhaps more important issue, which is, what is a healthy microbiom? I think if you asked any number of world experts, ([Time 1:12:29](https://share.snipd.com/snip/cfeb03c2-df26-490c-a23a-91a997c4abde))
	- What Should We Do?
	  
	  Summary:
	  We know that stress can negatively impact the g microbiom. fasting, long periods of fast which make sense because a lot micro biota need food in order to thrive. There are other questions such as, should we eat particular foods, and how often should we eat those foods? We have all been told that fibre is incredibly important because of the presence of pre biotic fibre, which can essentially feed the microbiom. But is fibre really necessary, and how necessary is it to encourage a healthy microbium? Clearly, there are a number of people following relatively low fibre diets, such as qitogenic diets.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Cessive microbiota brought about by excessive intake of probiotics, can lead to things like brain fog. There is actually some good studies that point to the fact that certain metabolites of the microbiom, certain chemicals produced in the gut and and in the body, can actually lead to brain fog states. This is thought to come out through the lactate pathways of the gut that can then impact the brain. If you want to look more into this issue of whether or not probiotics taken in excess, perhaps can lead to brain fog, i'd encourage you to look at a particular paper. There's a paper published in clinical and translational astro enterology, and the title of the paper is, brain fogginess, gas and bloating, a link between sebo probiotics and metabolic acidosis. It was published in 20 18. We can provide a link to this study. And there are several other studies in the references that point to the fact that in some cases, cessive intake of probiotics and excessive proliferation of gut micro biota can actually be problematic. I mention this not to confuse you, but because it is confusing out there. We all would think that just increasing microbiotal diversity is always a good thing. But there are thresholds beyond which excessive microbiotal diversity might be problematic. I think everyone agrees that having too few microbial species ([Time 1:14:59](https://share.snipd.com/snip/a5d57b74-d53e-406d-9ff0-68d00ba08d33))