title:: How to Take Smart Notes: One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking – For Students, Academics and Nonfiction Book Writers (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "How to Take Smart Notes: One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking – For Students, Academics and Nonfiction Book Writers"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/smart-notes/
document_note:: This document outlines a method of note-taking that helps to boost writing, learning and thinking. It emphasizes the importance of good structure to allow for the seamless transition from one task to the next, and suggests keeping notes in a slip-box to provide ideas and connections. It also mentions the importance of connecting facts to multiple meaningful contexts and using retrieval strength to remember information. Finally, it stresses the importance of having the courage to think for oneself and creating experimental spaces to allow ideas to intermingle.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- Environment and Structure
	  
	  1.  What does make a significant difference along the whole intelligence spectrum is something else: **how much self-discipline or self-control one uses to approach the tasks at hand. Luckily, this is not the whole story. We know today that self-control and self-discipline have much more to do with our environment than with ourselves** (cf. Thaler, 2015, ch. 2) – and the environment can be changed. Nobody needs willpower not to eat a chocolate bar when there isn’t one around. And **nobody needs willpower to do something they wanted to do anyway. Every task that is interesting, meaningful and well-defined will be done, because there is no conflict between long- and short-term interests. Having a meaningful and well-defined task beats willpower every time. Not having willpower, but not having to use willpower indicates that you set yourself up for success. This is where the organisation of writing and note-taking comes into play.**
	  2.  Good structure allows you to do that, to move seamlessly from one task to another – without threatening the whole arrangement or losing sight of the bigger picture. Having a clear structure to work in is completely different from making plans about something. If you make a plan, you impose a structure on yourself; it makes you inflexible. To keep going according to plan, you have to push yourself and employ willpower. This is not only demotivating, but also unsuitable for an open-ended process like research, thinking or studying in general, where we have to adjust our next steps with every new insight, understanding or achievement – which we ideally have on a regular basis and not just as an exception. Even though planning is often at odds with the very idea of research and learning, it is the mantra of most study guides and self-help books on academic writing. How do you plan for insight, which, by definition, cannot be anticipated? It is a huge misunderstanding that the only alternative to planning is aimless messing around. The challenge is to structure one’s workflow in a way that insight and new ideas can become the driving forces that push us forward.
	    1.  **The best way to deal with complexity is to keep things as simple as possible and to follow a few basic principles. The simplicity of the structure allows complexity to build up where we want it: on the content level. There is quite extensive empirical and logical research on this phenomenon (for an overview: cf. Sull and Eisenhardt, 2015). Taking smart notes is as simple as it gets.**
	  3.  Luhmann was able to focus on the important things right in front of him, pick up quickly where he left off and stay in control of the process because the structure of his work allowed him to do this. **If we work in an environment that is flexible enough to accommodate our work rhythm, we don’t need to struggle with resistance. Studies on highly successful people have proven again and again that success is not the result of strong willpower and the ability to overcome resistance, but rather the result of smart working environments that avoid resistance in the first place** (cf. Neal et al. 2012; Painter et al. 2002; Hearn et al. 1998). Instead of struggling with adverse dynamics, highly productive people deflect resistance, very much like judo champions. This is not just about having the right mindset, it is also about having the right workflow. It is the way Luhmann and his slip-box worked together that allowed him to move freely and flexibly between different tasks and levels of thinking. It is about having the right tools and knowing how to use them – and very few understand that you need both.
	  4.  Assemble notes and bring them into order, turn these notes into a draft, review it and you are done. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gstzqm7bz20t8ebz4ynv68m3))
		- **Note**: This text discusses the importance of having an organized environment and structure in order to maximize writing, learning, and thinking. It argues that having a meaningful and well-defined task is more beneficial than relying on willpower alone. It also states that having the right tools and knowing how to use them is necessary for success. Taking smart notes can help simplify the structure and allow complexity to build up on the content level. Finally, studies show that successful people use their environment to avoid resistance, instead of struggling with it.
	- We need four tools:
	  
	  1.  Something to write with and something to write on (pen and paper will do)
	  2.  A reference management system (the best programs are free)
	  3.  The slip-box (the best program is free)
	  4.  An editor (whatever works best for you: very good ones are free)
	  5.  More is unnecessary, less is impossible.
	    1.  Some suggestions: Zotero, takesmartnotes.com, Zettelkasten, zettelkasten.danielluedecke.de ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv1jszdrpetweax8wgwks40))
	- We tend to think that big transformations have to start with an equally big idea. But more often than not, it is the simplicity of an idea that makes it so powerful (and often overlooked in the beginning). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv1jy6cvsgwjsek0kwehfvp))
	- The slip-box is the shipping container of the academic world. Instead of having different storage for different ideas, everything goes into the same slip-box and is standardised into the same format. Instead of focusing on the in-between steps and trying to make a science out of underlining systems, reading techniques or excerpt writing, **everything is streamlined towards one thing only: insight that can be published. The biggest advantage compared to a top-down storage system organised by topics is that the slip-box becomes more and more valuable the more it grows, instead of getting messy and confusing. If you sort by topic, you are faced with the dilemma of either adding more and more notes to one topic, which makes them increasingly hard to find, or adding more and more topics and subtopics to it, which only shifts the mess to another level. The first system is designed to find things you deliberately search for, putting all the responsibility on your brain. The slip-box is designed to present you with ideas you have already forgotten, allowing your brain to focus on thinking instead of remembering.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv1k1dzgkj1r3bba0h8rcwq))
		- **Note**: The slip-box is like a big storage container for all your ideas and notes. It is better than having different places to store different things because it keeps everything organized in one place. The advantage of the slip-box is that the more information you put in it, the more useful it becomes instead of getting messy and confusing. If you try to organize things by topic, you will have a lot of notes and topics, so it will be hard to find what you're looking for. The slip-box helps to remember ideas you have forgotten and frees up your brain to think instead of trying to remember.
	- Our brains work not that differently in terms of interconnectedness. Psychologists used to think of the brain as a limited storage space that slowly fills up and makes it more difficult to learn late in life. But we know today that the more connected information we already have, the easier it is to learn, because new information can dock to that information. Yes, our ability to learn isolated facts is indeed limited and probably decreases with age. But if facts are not kept isolated nor learned in an isolated fashion, but hang together in a network of ideas, or “latticework of mental models” (Munger, 1994), it becomes easier to make sense of new information. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv2dztaag8dxwgs9nywf8mh))
	- Oshin Vartanian compared and analysed the daily workflows of Nobel Prize winners and other eminent scientists and concluded that it is not a relentless focus, but flexible focus that distinguishes them. “Specifically, the problem-solving behavior of **eminent scientists can alternate between extraordinary levels of focus on specific concepts and playful exploration of ideas.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv2egmtner320x3qks4kzp3))
	- The moment we stop making plans is the moment we start to learn. It is a matter of practice to become good at generating insight and write good texts by choosing and moving flexibly between the most important and promising tasks, judged by nothing else than the circumstances of the given situation. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv2eebxvg2cczw7zkcry01f))
	- **Breaks are much more than just opportunities to recover. They are crucial for learning. They allow the brain to process information, move it into long-term memory and prepare it for new information.** If we don’t give ourselves a break in between work sessions, be it out of eagerness or fear of forgetting what we were doing, it can have a detrimental effect on our efforts. To have a walk even a nap supports learning and thinking ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv2ervhm3xhx1nawnmy8mz6))
	- While selectivity is the key to smart note-taking, it is equally important to be selective in a smart way. Unfortunately, our brains are not very smart in selecting information by default. **While we should seek out dis-confirming arguments and facts that challenge our way of thinking, we are naturally drawn to everything that makes us feel good, which is everything that confirms what we already believe we know.** The very moment we decide on a hypothesis, our brains automatically go into search mode, scanning our surroundings for supporting data, which is neither a good way to learn nor research. Worse, we are usually not even aware of this confirmation bias (or myside bias). The classic role model would be Charles Darwin. He forced himself to write down (and therefore elaborate on) the arguments that were the most critical of his theories. **“I had [...] during many years followed a golden rule, namely, that whenever a published fact, a new observation or thought came across me, which was opposed to my general results, to make a memorandum of it without fail and at once; for I had found by experience that such facts and thoughts were far more apt to escape from the memory than favorable ones. Owing to this habit, very few objections were raised against my views, which I had not at least noticed and attempted to answer.”** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv2f570hd67fmbh9q4cc50n))
		- **Note**: We tend to want to think about things that make us feel good, which is usually the things we already think we know. But this isn't a good way to learn or do research. We often don't even know that we're doing this. Charles Darwin was a scientist who figured out a way to make sure he thought about things that might be different or wrong. He wrote down any ideas or facts that didn't agree with what he believed. That way, he was sure to come up with the best answer.
	- Developing arguments and ideas bottom-up instead of top-down is the first and most important step to opening ourselves up for insight. We should be able to focus on the most insightful ideas we encounter and welcome the most surprising turns of events without jeopardizing our progress or, even better, because it brings our project forward. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv2gf5w0xkhvsy726zfw6kw))
	- It is not surprising, therefore, that the best-researched and most successful learning method is elaboration. It is very similar to what we do when we take smart notes and combine them with others, which is the opposite of mere re-viewing (Stein et al. 1984) **Elaboration means nothing other than really thinking about the meaning of what we read, how it could inform different questions and topics and how it could be combined with other knowledge.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv2gr6brfwthmst2sn417g6))
		- **Note**: Elaboration is the best-researched and most successful learning method, and is similar to taking smart notes and combining them with others. Elaboration involves really thinking about the meaning of what is read, how it could inform different questions or topics, and how it could be combined with other knowledge.
	- **What does help for true, useful learning is to connect a piece of information to as many meaningful contexts as possible, which is what we do when we connect our notes in the slip-box with other notes. Making these connections deliberately means building up a self-supporting network of interconnected ideas and facts that work reciprocally as cues for each other.** Learned right, which means understanding, which means connecting in a meaningful way to previous knowledge, information almost cannot be forgotten anymore and will be reliably retrieved if triggered by the right cues. Moreover, this new learned knowledge can provide more possible connections for new information. If you focus your time and energy on understanding, you cannot help but learn. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv2j4h81b65w4n8mqd7169j))
		- **Note**: The best way to learn is to connect information to as many contexts as possible. This is what happens when you link the notes from your slip-box. When you understand how different pieces of information connect to one another, it will be much easier for you to remember them. Making these connections also helps you learn more because it gives you more ideas and facts to work with. If you focus your time and energy on understanding, you will learn more and remember it better.
	- IAnother key point: Try working on different manuscripts at the same time. While the slip-box is already helpful to get one project done, its real strength comes into play when we start working on multiple projects at the same time. The slip-box is in some way what the chemical industry calls “verbund.” This is a setup in which the inevitable by-product of one production line becomes the resource for another, which again produces by-products that can be used in other processes and so on, until a network of production lines becomes so efficiently intertwined that there is no chance of an isolated factory competing with it anymore. This is advantageous not only because we make progress on the next papers or books while we are still working on the current one, but also because it allows us to switch to other projects whenever we get stuck or bored. **Remember: Luhmann’s answer to the question of how one person could be so productive was that he never forced himself to do anything and only did what came easily to him. “When I am stuck for one moment, I leave it and do something else.” When he was asked what else he did when he was stuck, his answer was: “Well, writing other books. I always work on different manuscripts at the same time.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv2jqffgktpxgjjga4c8ss4))
		- **Note**: The slip-box system is an effective way to work on multiple projects simultaneously. It enables one to make progress on the next papers or books while still working on the current one, and to switch to other projects when stuck or bored. This was the answer of Luhmann on how to be productive: never force oneself to do anything and only do what comes easily, and work on different manuscripts at the same time when stuck.
	- Change is possible when the solution appears to be simple. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv2k33tgkpnhr6h5vmvv7z5))