title:: How to Foster Innovation and Big Thinking | Eeke De Milliano (highlights)
author:: [[Lenny's Podcast: Product | Growth | Career]]
full-title:: "How to Foster Innovation and Big Thinking | Eeke De Milliano"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/459695d8-ea19-443d-882b-fb86c74c965b

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 4th, 2023]]
	- Balancing homegrown product managers with product managers from other companies
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* One way to balance homegrown product managers with product managers who come from other companies is to have leads for each pillar, and to actively look for people who are strong in each area., * The main strength of retool's product team is its balance of homegrown and product manager from other companies.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  One way which I like to do that is I really like to balance product teams with homegrown product managers who really get the product. They've probably been in it. They're amazing culture carriers often. They really set the tone, but they may not have seen product management at other companies and they may not have some of the more conventional traditional product management skill sets. So I want to balance that with product managers who've come from other companies and have done it and can bring a little bit more of that product manager rigor even though they don't have that sort of the core and the retool case, the core retool product management vibe. So that's one example. I think there's others as well. Some PMs are incredible execution machines. Other PMs are amazing visionaries. You kind of want a little bit of all of them. And you want to also balance within all of your different pillars. So we have three different product pillars at retool and there's kind of leads for all those pillars. They're just the leads to sort of hire people who don't look like them so that we have balance everywhere.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  I love that. Do you actively as you're hiring, like, hey, when you're strong in these areas, here's the person we need here. We want this specific super strategy mind person. Is that actually how you think about this?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeah. Yeah. I do a little personal exercise for myself every six months where I sit, chart out the team that we have today and write down all the strengths that we have. ([Time 0:57:05](https://share.snipd.com/snip/9dbabe4e-b15a-41be-bd8c-155e6c4846f9))
- New highlights added [[Feb 28th, 2023]] at 9:35 PM
	- How to Foster Innovation in a Company
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Fear of failure is a major obstacle to innovation, and leaders need to start shining light on failure to help mitigate the cost., * It is easy to reduce the stakes of failure by small teams and getting customer feedback quickly., * Thinking big is hard, and teams need permission to do this.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  And one is this fear of failure. Like, I think leaders want the upside of innovation, but they're not really willing to deal with the cost of innovation, which is like, look, if you're gonna swing big, you will invariably stumble. Sometimes. So, you know, I think if you'd want to mitigate that, you have to start shining light on failure. That's really the only way. Like you have to start normalizing it a little bit. And obviously, like if an individual or a 15 is like consistently failing and not learning, that you need to, you know, you need to sort of deal with. But I think sometimes it's good to fail. So, you know, like, and when you do feel like, use it as an opportunity, like don't squander that moment to not learn, but I think like one example is, you know, instead of calling something a post-mortem, call it a retrospective. So that it's kind of a positive thing. Like, hey, we're learning from this thing. And then you think the other way to kind of mitigate the feel of failure is like, you have to figure out how to give folks more at that. Because like, obviously anything that takes one year to ship and you like haven't gotten any customer feedback, like the stakes of that are just gonna feel so, so high. Like any, like, if you get it wrong, it's gonna be devastating. So you have to figure out how to lower the stakes. And I honestly, I think that's, in some ways, it's kind of easy. It's like, well, don't put too many resources against these kind of like bigger swings, like have them be small teams. And then also like just get customer feedback as quickly as possible. Like don't wait until the thing is perfect. And that way you can kind of, yeah, like limit the risk. Say, I think that's fear of failure. That's definitely one thing that stops teams from being innovative. There's not a, like, I think a very practical one. Like sometimes teams are just getting bogged down by like really urgent work. Like there's just too much tech debt, there's too much product debt, bugs instability. It's like, massive hierarchy of needs. Like there's just no way that they're gonna be able to focus on the like, you know, the enlightened, like bigger creative stuff if they're just like heads down dealing with incidents all day. So if that's the case, like, yeah, like, yeah, diagnose it and get your team out of that. And then I think the last reason why teams aren't always that innovative is because I think thinking big is really hard. And to some people it comes pretty naturally, but for most of us sort of, you know, mortal souls, it's just really, really hard. And it takes time. And when you're out of startup and you're just grinding day and day out, you're just like, you're just trying, you're treading water, you're just like trying to make it through the day, like taking the time to really think about, you know, the strategy and like where things should go and get creative. It's pretty hard. So I call this, you know, you have to give teams permission to think. So create these moments in your company culture and your overall business processes where you're asking people, you're literally saying, like, hey, this is part of your job to think bigger. So at Ritul, we have these team charters and we do team planning. And at the bottom of every team charter, we have a section called Think Bigger with, you know, 20% more time. What would you do that isn't on this list already? And then another, I think really neat tradition that we had at Stride, we have a Ritul now too, is this idea, this thing called Crazy Ideas. So at the beginning of every year, David will send out a blank, like a blank doc to the org. And it's titled Crazy Ideas. And the prompt is, Crazy Ideas are ideas that we shouldn't obviously do. There's a 90% chance that they make no sense. But in the 10% chance that they do, they will make, you know, a 10 to 100 X difference for the Ritul business. And then it's just literally just a call, a request for Crazy Ideas. And the org loves it. It's amazing. The energy around it is so cool. And it's not just product ideas. It's different ways of how we should run our organization or like, it's really cool marketing ideas in there. So it's just, that doc is awesome. ([Time 0:22:14](https://share.snipd.com/snip/909cb35f-3bc3-4749-95ca-653fdd324dbb))