title:: How to Win at Risk by Using Systems Thinking (highlights)
author:: [[thesystemisdown.substack.com]]
full-title:: "How to Win at Risk by Using Systems Thinking"
category:: #articles
url:: https://thesystemisdown.substack.com/p/how-to-win-at-risk-every-time-by

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Stocks: Stocks are the collection of resources or inputs into a system. In a bathtub, the stock is the amount of water in the tub.
	- Flows: Flows are movements between stocks. A bathtub has two flows, the faucet letting water into the drain letting water out of the tub. The amount of water in the stock of the tub is the result of the interaction between the in-flow (the faucet) and the out-flow (the drain).
	- Reinforcing Feedback: Change in systems happen in loops, not lines. These loops take the form of feedback forces that interact with the stocks and flows. Reinforcing feedback, also known as “growth force,” happens when the stocks in a system are increasing. In the bathtub example, the growth force is the water coming out of the faucet, increasing the stock of water in the tub.
	- Limiting Factor: Systems collapse if the growth force is allowed to run unchecked. At a certain point, the system hits a limiting factor. In the bathtub example, the limiting factor is the desired level of water in the tub. You can always spot the limiting factors in a system by looking at the (1) carrying capacities of the stocks or (2) the goals of the players in the system.
	- Balancing Feedback: Balancing feedback, or “balance force,” kicks as the system approaches one of its limiting factors. In a bathtub, as the amount of water in the tub approaches the desired water level, the person filling the tub reaches out and turns the faucet off. Suddenly, the system is balanced. Anywhere there is a goal, for example, the desired water level in a bath, you’ll find forces at work that are trying to achieve that goal by balancing the system.
	- Equilibrium: When a system is balanced, it reaches equilibrium. There are two types of equilibrium: static and dynamic. In the tub example, if the faucet is off and the drain is plugged, static equilibrium has been reached since no flows (in-flow or out-flow) is coming off the stock. Dynamic equilibrium is reached when the total flows into and out of a stock continue, but are equal, as would be the case if the water in a tub was filling at the same rate it was draining.
	- Leverage: Systems are hard to change because balancing feedback does such a good job of returning the system to equilibrium. Leverage refers to the forces that are applied to a system in an attempt to change it, but, as you will see below, not all levers are created equal, nor equally effective. In fact, pulling on some levers only makes the sleeping dragons of balancing feedback wake up and lock down the system. However, savvy systems thinkers are able to find the leverage points in a system that can change it so dramatically that a new balance is reached—perhaps tipped in your favor.