title:: How Asia Works: Success and Failure in the World’s Most Dynamic Regions (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "How Asia Works: Success and Failure in the World’s Most Dynamic Regions"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/how-asia-works/
document_note:: The key to successful development of a country is to first improve agriculture and industry with government interventions, such as subsidies and protective policies, to increase skill and technological know-how. This is followed by the use of finance to direct these two areas in a sustainable way. Redistribution of land and freedom, rule of law, environmental health, and individual autonomy are also essential for a country to prosper.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- If you want industrialization, first fix agriculture ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmjr5jxxrs98ex6t1ahzypd))
	- Big business is incredibly important. There are smaller countries with big firms which have gotten rich but never the other way around. However, government must continuously restrain their entrepreneurs or else you end up with oligarchs like in Russia or SE Asia ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmjrzx2bev3yqr1c8cctvsm))
	- Capital allocation must be tied to industrial policy and export performance or else capital will be deployed in low return investments. Government must incentivize and cajole entrepreneurs towards manufacturing and international markets. The financier is not the economic savior some suggest but responds to the environment around him which the government helps create. Foreign funds must not be allowed in too early and deregulation can only happen once manufacturing is humming and technological progress is underway ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmjs80yxse3pw13get16ysm))
	- People worry about shadow banking systems which lend to wealthy citizens outside the direct view of the government in order to seek higher returns but this has existed in one form or another in every developing country. Whenever government policy favors agriculture and industry over finance, shadow finances will pop up ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmjsk1ahw607fvpznz51f10))
	- China’s financial policies are not as loose as many think if taken into context of Japan and Korea in similar stages, the size of their economy and the make up of their assets, and the fact that little money is owed externally. They are making great technological progress with the money they’ve borrowed but the best days of industrial-led policy development have passed so they will need to be more efficient moving forward. It is China’s size and not necessarily their innovative policies which have shaken the world. It does not yet have any world renowned firms and, if it is to take the next step developmentally, must improve its institutional policies ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmjsp23r7be2syh8ecsepr1))
	- For developing countries, the best way to prosper is to first redistribute land so the people can use gardening style agriculture to feed themselves and save some money, then government's must create subsidies and protective policies so that internal industry can grow and flourish with the goal of increasing skill and technological know-how so that future innovation can happen, then finance comes into the picture and must be used to further direct these two areas effectively and sustainably ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmjt6v57t30z6kec082se9k))
		- **Note**: This document argues that developing countries can prosper by first redistributing land to enable the people to grow their own food and save money. Government subsidies and protective policies should then be implemented to support internal industry, followed by the use of finance to further direct these two areas in a sustainable manner. Ultimately, this is intended to increase skill and technological know-how and enable future innovation.