title:: James Dale Davidson, Lord William Rees-Moog (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "James Dale Davidson, Lord William Rees-Moog"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-sovereign-individual/
document_note:: James Dale Davidson and Lord William Rees-Moog discuss the shift from a world based on industry and large corporations to an information-based society that empowers the individual. They discuss the implications of this shift which include the liberation of individuals from traditional economic standards, the devolution of power away from the nation-state, and the disorientation that may result from the transition. They also discuss the factors that will shape the transition, such as topography, climate, microbes, and technology, and the need for efficiency in investment. Furthermore, they state that successful heads of government should be rewarded with multimillionaire status and that society should emphasize efficiency and dynamic rather than static survival.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- As technology revolutionizes the tools we use, it also antiquates our laws, reshapes our morals, and alters our perceptions. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv485aez91w59jdbnt00866))
	- If you fail to transcend conventional thinking at a time when conventional thinking is losing touch with reality, then you will be more likely to fall prey to an epidemic of disorientation that lies ahead. Disorientation breeds mistakes that could threaten your business, your investments, and your way of life. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv6dysndy2s25sdtgpync0t))
		- **Note**: Disorientation looms 🤯
		  Transcend conventional thinking 🤔
		  Secure future now 🔐
	- Here are some summary points that you should keep in mind as you seek to understand the Information Revolution: A shift in the megapolitical foundations of power normally unfolds far in advance of the actual revolutions in the use of power. Incomes are usually falling when a major transition begins, often because a society has rendered itself crisis-prone by marginalizing resources due to population pressures. **Seeing “outside” of a system is usually taboo. People are frequently blind to the logic of violence in the existing society; therefore, they are almost always blind to changes in that logic, latent or overt.** **Megapolitical transitions are seldom recognized before they happen. Major transitions always involve a cultural revolution, and usually entail clashes between adherents of the old and new values.** Megapolitical transitions are never popular, because they antiquate painstakingly acquired intellectual capital and confound established moral imperatives. They are not undertaken by popular demand, but in response to changes in the external conditions that alter the logic of violence in the local setting. Transitions to new ways of organizing livelihoods or new types of government are initially confined to those areas where the megapolitical catalysts are at work. With the possible exception of the early stages of farming, past transitions have always involved periods of social chaos and heightened violence due to disorientation and breakdown of the old system. Corruption, moral decline, and inefficiency appear to be signal features of the final stages of a system. The growing importance of technology in shaping the logic of violence has led to an acceleration of history, leaving each successive transition with less adaptive time than ever before. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv6eq8ch4sxbv8zc2tx6vvs))
		- **Note**: This document outlines the characteristics of megapolitical transitions, which are shifts in the megapolitical foundations of power. People are usually blind to the changes in the logic of violence of the existing society and transitions are not undertaken by popular demand. Such transitions entail clashes between adherents of the old and new values, are not popular, and often involve periods of chaos and heightened violence. Technology has accelerated the timeline of these transitions, making them happen faster than ever before.
	- Cultures are not matters of taste but systems of adaptation to specific circumstances that may prove irrelevant or even counterproductive in other settings. Humans live in a wide variety of habitats. The wide number of potential niches in which we live require variations in behavior that are too complex to be informed by instinct. Therefore, behavior is culturally programmed. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv6fh38byphr6zjqngr1ahn))
	- •   **As information technology alters the logic of battle, it will antiquate the myths of citizenship just as assuredly as gunpowder antiquated medieval chivalry.**
	  •   **Gunpowder weapons radically altered the nature of society in yet another way. They separated the exercise of power from physical strength, thereby lowering the opportunity costs of mercantile activity. Rich merchants no longer had to depend upon their own finesse and strength in hand-to-hand combat or on mercenaries of uncertain loyalty to defend themselves. They could hope to be defended by the new, larger armies of the great monarchs.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv6fxpkbt116drk05t1a36r))
		- **Note**: This passage is talking about how technology can change the way we think. It says that new kinds of technology, like gunpowder, changed the way people lived in Medieval Times. With gunpowder weapons, people didn't have to depend on their own physical strength or hire people to protect them. Instead, they could rely on the large armies of powerful rulers to protect them. This same idea applies today with information technology. As new kinds of technology change the way we think and do things, it will affect the way we view citizenship and our beliefs about it.
	- •   **Thinking about government as an economic unit that sells protection led Lane to analyze the control of government in economic rather than political terms. In this view, there are three basic alternatives in the control of government, each of which entails a fundamentally different set of incentives: proprietors, employees, and customers.**
	  •   **When returns to violence are high and rising, magnitude means more than efficiency. Larger entities tend to prevail over smaller ones.**
	  •   **Societies that reconfigure themselves to become more complex adaptive systems will indeed prosper. But when they do, they are unlikely to be nations, much less “political superpowers.” The more likely immediate beneficiaries of increased complexity of social systems will be the Sovereign Individuals of the new millennium.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv6nt34tgwgwvq1rvttfa4t))
		- **Note**: James Dale Davidson and Lord William Rees-Moog argue that the control of government can be viewed in economic terms, with three different incentive models - proprietors, employees, and customers - and that larger entities tend to prevail when returns to violence are high and increasing. They suggest that increased complexity of social systems will favor Sovereign Individuals, rather than nations or political superpowers.
	- In the age of the virtual corporation, individuals will choose to domicile their income-earning activities in a jurisdiction that provides the best service at the lowest cost. In other words, sovereignty will be commercialized. Unlike medieval frontier societies, which were in most cases impoverished and violent, cyberspace will be neither. The competition that information technology is driving governments to engage in is not competition of a military kind, but competition in quality and price of an economic service —genuine protection. In short, governments will be obliged to give customers what they want. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv6wajs29sq1rdcyzwc53re))
		- **Note**: In the future, when virtual companies become more common, people will choose to conduct their money-making activities in the place that gives them the best service at the cheapest price. This means that governments will have to compete with each other to give people what they want in order to make money. Unlike in the past, when some places were poor and dangerous, the online world will be different. Instead of using military power, governments will have to compete in quality and cost in order to provide genuine protection.
	- **To an increasing degree, individuals capable of creating significant economic value will be able to retain most of the value they create for themselves. Support staff that previously absorbed a large part of the revenue generated by the principal income creators in an enterprise will be replaced by low-cost automated agents and information systems**. This implies that an organization will be better able to assure itself of the highest quality of service by contracting it out, rather than by keeping the function within the firm, where it will be relatively more difficult to reward individuals for performing a task well. A virtual corporation will eliminate most “organizational slack” by eliminating the organization. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv6ws6t108s61nab842276q))
		- **Note**: The people who create money and wealth will be able to keep more of the money they make. Instead of having people do the work, companies will use machines and computers to do the work. This way, companies can get the best service for the least amount of money. Virtual companies will not have the same kind of extra people and costs that traditional companies have.
	- •   **The thesis of this book is that the massed power of the nation-state is destined to be privatized and commercialized. Like all truly radical institutional change, the privatization and commercialization of sovereignty will involve a revolution in the “common sense” of the way the world is comprehended. Such change seldom happens in a gradual, linear way. To the contrary. Indeed, for reasons we explored in The Great Reckoning, it is practically ruled out. We expect the Information Age to bring discontinuities—sharp breaks with the institutions and the consciousness of the past.**
	  •   **Who will the losers be in the Information Age? In general terms, the tax consumers will be losers. It is usually they who could not increase their wealth by moving to another jurisdiction. Much of their income is lodged in the rules of a national political jurisdiction rather than conveyed by market valuations.**
	  •   **In our judgment, the opposite is happening today. Information technology is raising earnings opportunities for the skilled and undermining institutions that operate at a large scale, including the nation-state.** This is an example with important application for the future. It suggests that thinking entrepreneurs in the next millennium will first introduce dramatic labor-saving automation in regions without a tradition of producing whatever product or service is in question.
	  •   **The most talented executives in the world could be attracted to run faltering governments if they could be paid on the basis of results they actually achieve for society. A leader who could significantly boost real income in any leading Western nation could justly be paid far more than Michael Eisner. In a better world, every successful head of government would be a multimillionaire.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv6y3zw2zstem62t08rtsxk))
		- **Note**: James Dale Davidson and Lord William Rees-Moog argue that the power of nation-states is destined to be privatized and commercialized, a change that will disrupt the current "common sense" of the world. The losers in this new Information Age will be the tax consumers, as their incomes are determined by the political jurisdiction rather than market valuations. The authors suggest that the new millennium will bring labor-saving automation to regions without a tradition of producing a certain product or service. Lastly, they posit that successful heads of government should be rewarded with multimillionaire salaries.
	- **A good social morality has certain characteristics. It should contribute to the survival of society and of individuals, in a dynamic rather than static way. It should include tolerance and avoid self-righteousness. It should be religious, rather than merely agnostic. It should not pretend to decide questions of scientific fact. It should be neither anarchic nor authoritarian. It should be widely shared and deeply held. Such a social morality is particularly important to the family and to the raising of children as independent and responsible adults. It provides the focus of a good society.** Several features of the new morality can be foreseen. For one thing, it will emphasize the importance of productivity and the correctness of earnings being retained by those who generate them. Another corollary point will be the importance of efficiency in investment. The morality of the Information Age applauds efficiency, and recognizes the advantage of resources being dedicated to their highest-value uses. In other words, the morality of the Information Age will be the morality of the market. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv701d1ar7dt6hk9f0zetbf))
		- **Note**: James Dale Davidson, Lord William Rees-Moog argues that a good social morality should contribute to the survival of society, be tolerant, religious, and widely shared. It should also emphasize productivity and efficiency, and recognize the advantage of resources being dedicated to their highest-value uses. This morality should be the morality of the market.
	- This underscores the wisdom of the traditional liberal education, which aimed to encourage students to develop their critical faculties and thinking skills. Success in business, as in most areas of life, depends upon being able to solve problems. If you can teach yourself how to solve problems, you have a bright career ahead of yourself. No matter where you live, you will find problems galore in need of solving. In most cases, those who would benefit from solutions of their problems will pay you handsomely to effect them. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsv6zey0fazjq9gejnc10a2x))
		- **Note**: Liberal education:🤔
		  Teach to solve problems around✅
		  Bright future ahead💡