title:: Johann Hari on Lost Connections (highlights)
author:: [[EconTalk]]
full-title:: "Johann Hari on Lost Connections"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/ee2937a9-b3b0-4401-9a97-da27b14e898b

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Depression Is Not a Disease, But a Phenomenon
	  
	  Summary:
	  Depression is not visible. It does not have a chemical mark or there might be seratone and shortage andou insufficiency wo every one call it. The fact that depression has risen in the united states could be simply an increase in the diagnosis, but not the phenomenon. People who are depressed tend to experience in their sleep a lot of what are called mic awakenings - where you you wake up slightly when you're asleep. So people who depress tend to higher levels of micro awakenings. And so we do know because he did a very good study with a group like the armish, Was another group who live much more like huderites than amish. You can infer
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Just to make clearer, a challenge in this kind of work, inevitably, is that depression is not visible. It does not have a chemical mark or there might be seratone and shortage andou insufficiency wo every one call it. But as you point out, you'll probably talk about later, that's not what depression actually literally is. It could be correlated, it could be totally misleading marker, but it requires a diagnosis of the fact, for example, that the omash have low rates of depression. They have low rates of measured depression. I happen to agree with you. You were among them for a while. I suspect they also have low actual rates. But it could be a community where it's hard to admit to having mental health issues. Know that over the last i don't know. Two thousand years if human history, there was a thing called melancholia that that people were ashamed of. And certainly depression was something people were ashamed of. So the fact that depression has risen in the united states could be simply an increase in the diagnosis, but not the phenomenon. I happen to agree with you that it is an increase, i suspect, in the actual phenomena. But ithink it's important to just say that, because as eager as some people are to mark this as a disease, and it may be in some dimension, it isn't. It is not like a cancer that can be a bio essayed in in a laboratory and then a definitively defined i think that's really important.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  And i thought about this alot in relation to my grandmother's so my swiss gritmates from switzerland. And my swiss grandmother lived her life in a tiny village in the swiss mountains. And if ia, i loved my grandmother. She was a remarkable woman e and she lived to be 90. And if i think about my grandmother, or my other grandmother, my scottish grandmother, who was in a very poor working class part of scotland. If i think about my grandmother's lives and loves, they, i knew them very well, my scottsh grandmother effectively raised me that they were, by our understanding, depressed quite a lot of their lives. They were really denied opportunities. They my scotch grandmother, had an extremely difficult life in all sorts of ways. And they would never have used that word about themselves. Indeed, they would have strongly rejected that word about themselvesemin it woul't have made any sense to them to talk about it. Maybe towards the end of their lives they would, they would have known our kind of concept to depresson. So you're definitely right, there's both been a rise of a kind of narrative about depression that just didn't exist in the past, or existed, as you say, in very different forms, concepts like melancholia, which are quite distinct also. So there's been er, there's definitely been an increase in people describing themselves as depressed. There's so often, for very good reasons, theres ben a reduction and stigma around these problems. Er. So you're absolutely right. T the part of the phenomenon of er rising rates of depression and anxiety diagnoses is just more people describing themselves that way, who would have felt that way in the past, but not used those words or that language. I do think parallex thats, that phenomenon is certainly happening. I think alongside that phenomenon, there is a real increase. And i think we, we, we know that. I think it's reasonable to reach that conclusion. Althugh, there are other reasonable people who disagree for a few reasons. One is there are some bio markes for depression. Actually, seratonian is not a good one, er, i can go into wy if you want, but ther. So, for example, one thing that we know, professor john cassiopo, who is inth university chicago, did a lot of good work on this. One thing we know is people who are depressed tend to experience in their sleep a lot of what are called mic awakenings, which are where you you wake up slightly when you're asleep. You often won't even know you've done it. Er. So people who depress tend to higher levels of er micro awakenings. And so that's one proxy measure. It's not perfect, obviously. And we do know because he did a very good study with a group like the armish. Wasn't the armish, it was another group who live very much like them, caled the huderites. You're actually even more extreme than amish. And the the huderites have extremely low levels of micro awakenings. So it's not just that they're less likely to describe themselves as depressed, they're less likely to show that fairly good rough proxy for depression, which i think is why we can infer. It's not just a cultural thing where they're not saying it, they're actually feeling it less than the rest of us. Ad tik's another reason why it's reasonable to infer depression and anxiety have gone up, is that there are certain factors that we know r cause depression and anxiety, and we know that a lot of them have risen. So let's give a really obvious one, loneliness. Again, professor cassiopo, a wonderful man, sadly died recently, di spent 30 years studying this and and demonstrated very clearly. You know, there was a long time when people thought, well, yes, depression and lonely s go together, but is that you become depressed, and then you become lonely naturallyand of course, that is true in many cases. But he proved that loneliness causes depression and anxiety. And we know that loneliness has massively gone up. And that's just one of several factors. So i do think it's reasonable to conclude there is a real phenomenon going on here of the actual of depression and anxiety themselves increasing a couple angi we should make some distinction for listeners who are not immersed in this area. ([Time 0:05:47](https://share.snipd.com/snip/698eafb7-958c-4aec-94d0-97161639a5d7))