title:: John Krakauer Part 1 —  Taking Multiple Perspectives on the Brain (highlights)
author:: [[COMPLEXITY]]
full-title:: "John Krakauer Part 1 —  Taking Multiple Perspectives on the Brain"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/ce35e75b-4599-45d5-b60a-6b447ef170f7

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- The Directionality of Discovery
	  
	  Summary:
	  CNN's John Sutter is a professor of psychology at the University of California, San Francisco. He recently wrote an essay arguing that neuroscience needs to focus on behavior rather than theory. The piece was inspired by his friendship with NYU neuroscientist David Popple. In it he argues that we should be looking for neural correlates not just computational algorithms and computations.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  No, you've got this piece that you wrote on the Journal of Neurophysiology on the neuro scene. Essays at the Interface of Neuroscience in the world arguing for more sort of popular long-form science essay stuff in scientific publications. And you and your brother both have a fondness for the essay that I share. Let's make this conversation kind of an essay. Yes, absolutely. And so just out of the, I don't know, seven or so publications that I felt worth highlighting, one of the ones that came up in what you said for me now was another piece that you wrote perspective in neuron, or led this piece with a number of co-authors on neuroscience needs behavior, correcting a reductionist bias. There's this relationship between the way that these things are understood. And so if you could just take a moment to unpack that, because I think that will give us kind of a nice bed within which we can grow some other things.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeah, I mean, that piece, which came out in February 2017, arose from a Gordon conference that happened, I think, two to three years before, where I gave a talk. And some editors said, John, you should really think about turning that into an essay. And it turned out that David Popple, a prominent neuroscientist at NYU, was at that Gordon conference. And we immediately struck up a friendship. I mean, in the same way that the editors came up to me to write something, he just came up to me and said, we should be buddies. And we promptly went off in his convertible to get good coffee, which certainly wasn't available at that hotel. And we started to plot a piece where we would try and make a case that there was still a need to take a psychological stance. In other words, take a look at behavior, decompose that behavior into computations and algorithms, test hypotheses at the level of the behavior and experiments on behavior. And then when you have a framework, when you have a model, then start looking for the neural correlates. So the argument really was that you take the classic David Maury and framework of the computational algorithmic and implementational levels and actually make a case that when you look at behaviors, especially simplified behaviors you can quantify, you're really doing work at the algorithmic level. You're saying, okay, here's a task analysis. How do you decompose that task into component algorithmic processes? Can you test either all hypotheses? Can you compare models? And then once you've gotten that decomposition, you're much better positioned to go into the brain and look at the neural correlates. Now, what are the neural correlates going to tell you? And this was the deep point about this article, which is, do you break ties is one idea that you have these different behaviors at the level of the task analysis and the only way to break the tie is to actually look at neural correlates. So in other words, you go into the brain almost for confirmation, not for discovery. So the thing I think that upset a lot of people and inspired others is most of the time, the conceptual advances at the level of the task analysis and then let's say that you posit something like a reward prediction error or a sensory prediction error, and your experiments suggest that such an error should exist, then you go into the brain and you find a correlate of that error and you go, ah, we were justified in positing such an entity because we can find a neural correlates for them. Now, there are many, many pitfalls of coming to the conclusion that your variable exists inside the brain because you find a neural correlate for it, which we shouldn't discuss today. But nevertheless, it was basically the directionality of discovery should be task analysis, theorized about that, posit algorithms and computations, and then go into the brain, right? And what we felt what the reductionist bias was is things were kind of gone in the other direction. You'd have a behavior. The behavior wasn't really very well thought. It wasn't constructed in a very sophisticated manner. It was really a behavior just to get the neurons going, right? So you just want to get the neurons going, and then you can just dive into the brain and the rest of your work will be in your own land. So the behavior was really to initialize the system rather than being the thing that you wanted to explain in the first place. So you'd find papers that had over 50 figures, 49 of them would be neural and one would be of the behavior. So in other words, we thought this was all backwards. So that was the main idea. Also, we thought that you have to be very careful that you don't devise such artificial tasks and experiments that you're taking the nervous system with this poor animal for a ride that has nothing to do with what it was ecologically designed to do. It would be like using an iPhone as a hammer. You can use an iPhone as a hammer. So it was that idea that you could get yourself into trouble forcing neural responses out of unnatural behaviors that just lead you in the wrong direction. So the sort of second point with make sure that you go for ecological behaviors that are in the umpvault of the animal. So it was really just a plea to go back to thinking about evolution, behavior, tasks, and not get carried away by methodologies where you, after you've gathered all the data, then you start to try and tell a story after the fact. ([Time 0:09:45](https://share.snipd.com/snip/0494cb32-e7c4-4bd8-86cb-57f47df4ad40))