title:: Julia Bonafede – Rosetta Analytics (highlights)
author:: [[Capital Allocators – Inside the Institutional Investment Industry]]
full-title:: "Julia Bonafede – Rosetta Analytics"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/f5ce3698-b896-4618-b4e4-84dd518469ff

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- How Does a Neural Network Strategy Fit Into Your Portfolio?
	  
	  Summary:
	  CNN's Jim Boulden talks with Julia Angelo, co-founder of rosetta analytics. The company uses artificial intelligence to help investors make smarter decisions in the stock market. Alligators can learn a lot about investing from neural networks and reinforced learning. They also discuss challenges for alligators when it comes to adopting an a i approach.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Julia was at wilshire for 24 years capped by serving as president of wilshire consulting and as a member of wilshire's board of directors and wilshire consulting investment committee. In two thousand 16, she cofounded rosetta analytics, an investment manager inventing active management by creating advanced artificial intelligence strategies. Their conversation includes a discussion of the past, present and future of investment consulting, the application of neural networks and reinforced learning to investing, and the challenges for alligators in adopting an a i approach. Before we dive in, jim and i discuss why he chose to invest in rosetta and how the strategy fits into verger's portfolios. Jim, grated to seeo. Sad you was well, thanks the time. Yes, so this is sort of an interesting one, right? So neural network strategy. Why don't we just start with, how do you think about how that fits into your portfolio? Well, you new it's interesting. Modern portfolio theory is not very modern, right? So we sit around and think about, what's the next thing tat we shold be focused on, and learning about it, and tring to do some more work on it. And i think it's the ideation around this concept came from thinkn about what was going on in the world, thinking about computer powerand thinking about what we're seeing. Our vetric capital managers investing these great companies that were going parabolic, looking at things like sass networks and all these incredible technologies. But what we kept seeing, the common theme of all those, was the idea of computing power has js made these things possible. But what was not changing was asallication. And we started looking around and trying to find other investors that were looking at this. And everyone was talking about machine learning in the concept of go or chess, but not in a way that was able to invest in a real fashion. So as we looked at other managers in the space that were looking at this, it was o the big hedge funds, but they weren't able to share what they were doing because it was such an edge, they felt. So we weren't getig a lot of feedback. So we sort of thought about this in a more general fashion. And then julean angelo came around, and they want to do something different. And i think when we look at our portfolios and all our managers we talk to it's a sea of sameness. And it was sort of, i actually interesting for us to think about this as like a skunk works. Like, let's think about, can we use something out of machine learning? Let's start with the s m p, but then can we apply it to carbon? Can we apply it to porphillo construction? Acid aplication? So the idea originally was for us, was to use rosetta as a skunk work to look at what else coud we do in a better, more efficient manner now that we have all thes computing power. So that coupled with the fact that we kept seeing the same managers the same strategys, and felt that it wasn't lot of edge there. So this was something that was wholly different, and we felt that would be attracted to our portfolio. So when you take a new paradime like that and still layer it into somewhat of a traditional portfolio without it, how did you think about how to size your capital application to that strategy within the context of your portfolio? There's two bet the are right th. First one is on the managersself. Di've known julia for 20 years and worked together, and the fact that we still work together is a testament to how her integrity and her ability to really be what she is, which is one of the best mines in investing that i've ever run across. And then this second piece is, then we're going to see save some capital to seeds products. So we started with sort of a five million dollar nvestment and grew from theres. We now have four stragedies with rosetta, and three of them have been very, very successful. One of them has been turned off. Ogreat. Jim, thanks for that intro. And let's have thaty everyone. ([Time 0:02:37](https://share.snipd.com/snip/d3a0a774-e714-4b7a-ba86-a0428ed5ef68))