title:: Leonardo Da Vinci (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Leonardo Da Vinci"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/da-vinci/
document_note:: Leonardo da Vinci was the original Renaissance Man, excelling in everything from botany to engineering and art. He was the master of combining art and science, and was renowned for his deep observation and curiosity, his intense imagination, and his immense creativity. His formal education was minimal and most of his abilities were honed by practice. He had an unparalleled ability to observe, analyze, and find better ways to do things, and used a technique called 'pentimento' to make his art more lifelike and 3D. He was also a perfectionist and worked on many projects for years or even decades. He had an eye for detail and used analogy to understand and appreciate nature. He was also a great anatomist and engineer. His mark of genius was his willingness to change and drop preconceived notions.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 19th, 2023]]
	- Leonardo questioned everything and was never satisfied with accepted wisdom ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskes6rh9xvqm2pvzkf2ffhs))
	- Observing, analyzing, and trying to find better ways to do things became Leonardo‘s method of learning - this preempted the scientific method by several hundred years ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskestp16bdr4awmtgr5a30v))
		- **Note**: Leonardo da Vinci is credited with pre-empting the scientific method by several hundred years through his method of learning which involved observing, analyzing and trying to find better ways to do things.
	- One of the many skills that set Leonardo’s art apart with his ability to use light, shade and color to make a two dimensional canvas into a painting which looks three-dimensional. 'Chiaroscuro' and 'sfumato' were two techniques Leonardo developed to make his art more lifelike and 3D ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsketkpmex1kqsbzxmp0kf2q))
	- Analogy is one of the best ways to appreciate and understand nature. Because of his close observation, Leonardo noticed connections between how the human body (micro) and the earth (macro) worked similarly and how they were connected. The interconnection of nature and the unity of its patterns is a constant theme in his work. He was able to observe similarities between how blood pumped through veins and capillaries, how water made its way through branches in plants, how water flowed from rivers and tributaries. His cross-field, multidisciplinary observations and connections were unlike anything the world had ever seen ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsketwyarrmn0m84p8dwzmqh))
		- **Note**: Leonardo da Vinci was a revolutionary thinker who observed similarities between the human body and the earth that had not been seen before. He noticed connections between how blood pumped through veins and capillaries, how water flowed through plants, and how water moved through rivers and tributaries. He used analogy to understand and appreciate nature, leading to his theme of the interconnection of nature and the unity of its patterns in his work.
	- The greatest anatomical work Leonardo did was on the heart. He recognized patterns due to his multidisciplinary style that others wouldn’t recognize for several hundred more years. His love of fluid dynamics, eddies, branching of veins and more all helped him understand the heart better than anyone else up to that point. Leonardo transferred this to his now famous curls of hair seen in many of his paintings ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskewcs1w6chebp20328q1mb))
	- He used drawings, models, sketches and thought experiments to help him think, establish ideas and questions and to find gaps in his knowledge or thinking ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskex2axpdbt1mh37ekq1c1j))
		- **Note**: Leonardo da Vinci was a renowned Renaissance thinker who used a variety of methods to explore his ideas and questions, including drawings, models, sketches, and thought experiments. He used these methods to help him think, establish ideas and questions, and to identify gaps in his knowledge or thinking.
	- No moment unto itself is self containing. The past is rolled up into the moment and this influences the future ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskewm9jhasn2vdrrgkqzjey))
		- **Note**: Leonardo da Vinci believed that the present moment is not isolated from the past or the future. He argued that the past is connected to the current moment and will have an effect on the future.