title:: Making Sense of Encounters With Violence | Episode 4 of the Essential Sam Harris (highlights)
author:: [[Making Sense with Sam Harris]]
full-title:: "Making Sense of Encounters With Violence | Episode 4 of the Essential Sam Harris"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/42eba8bd-6211-4de4-ac2d-59007960f4de

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 29th, 2023]]
	- The Evolution of the [[Fear]] Meter
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Evolution favors animals with a good deal of fear., * All of us animals currently living are trailing a long line of the evolved behavior of fearful animals who utilized this fear to avoid death., * The dead ends on the family tree are much more likely to be the animals who are most numb to the threat of something truly dangerous, rather than the ones who reacted to the first rustling in the leaves as if it were a poisonous snake., ..., * Our fear meter may therefore be calibrated to be hypersensitive to encounters with new and unfamiliar devices., * To make this point, imagine plucking a human out of history from.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  [[Evolution]] favors animals with a good deal of fear. All of us animals currently living are trailing a long line of the evolved behavior of fearful animals who utilized this fear to avoid death. The dead ends on the family tree are much more likely to be the animals who are most numb to the threat of something truly dangerous, rather than the ones who reacted to the first rustling in the leaves as if it were a poisonous snake. But of course, there's a balance to strike. An animal who was too jumpy and ran away in fear every time the leaves rustled may have missed out on a lot of good feeding opportunities and may not have had the privilege of passing on its genes. So this evolved fear meter has been calibrating its accuracy within us for quite some time, but it's not a perfect instrument. Evolution, as always, is merely a blind process, seeking the path of least resistance suitable enough to keep the genes going. Evolution also moves at a much slower pace than the technological and societal evolution of our modern civilization. The overwhelming majority of the fear meter's evolution took place in an environment when we were around similar-looking and sounding kin and took place in the absence of technological threats like guns, bombs, and radiation. Our fear meter may therefore be calibrated to be hypersensitive to encounters with new and unfamiliar devices. To make this point, imagine plucking a human out of history from 300,000 years ago. You and this earlier human decide to go for a walk in the woods. Imagine coming across a discarded blender by the side of the path. You would recognize the object right away, and though you may have some questions as to how it ended up there, you'd be pretty confident that it posed no danger. You could see the rusted plug laying harmlessly in the dirt, but your caveman friend might be startled and mystified by it. The sharp blades on their own may scare him, and if you weren't there to encourage him to inspect it, he might take extraordinary caution towards the thing. Next, imagine that a human 300,000 years from now plucks you out from history and takes you on a walk in his world. Imagine coming across a strange device in the grass with a shape and material that made little sense to you. Your internal fear meter may be beeping and sending all kinds of fear chemicals your way to urge you to be very careful with the strange thing. Even while your futuristic hiking partner assured you that the thing was harmless in this context. Fear of the unknown may not be entirely universal or felt as strongly by everyone, but it seems to be the default for humans. The blueprint of evolution reads, better safe than sorry. But it's not just new and unfamiliar kinds of objects that can trip our fear response. Our fear meters can also be hypersensitive to new and unfamiliar kinds of people. This wrinkle is what often drives all forms of bigotry and racism. When we feel that fear of other people, it seems to spring from a mysterious source. We may experience it as just a bad feeling or something that doesn't feel quite right. So what are we to make of this? That's Gavin De Becker's area of interest. De Becker is an expert in the prediction and management of violence. He's worked in security details for celebrities and investigated stalkers. He's developed threat assessment systems for governors and U.S. Supreme Court justices. And he's frequently been brought in as an expert witness in high profile cases. He's also managed security for Sam's public events. Here, he and Sam will focus on fear and the mysterious concept of intuition. You'll hear De Becker give a robust defense of this inner sense and the nearly subconscious form of intelligence it represents as it has been molded through countless trial runs of evolution. This is Gavin De Becker from Episode 90, living with violence. ([Time 0:18:03](https://share.snipd.com/snip/2575716f-ab33-4f92-804c-751f28df066f))