title:: Marc Andreessen’s Blog Archives (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Marc Andreessen’s Blog Archives"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/pmarca-blog-archives/
document_note:: Marc Andreessen's blog archives provide a number of key takeaways for entrepreneurs looking for funding. He suggests that having a working product is the best way to get funded, and that the most important factor for a startup's success or failure is the market. He advises startups to focus obsessively on achieving product/market fit, and to raise money to fully exploit the opportunity and reach profitability. He also outlines his theory of luck and offers advice on picking an industry and committing to something with both your head and heart.
tags:: #[[startups]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- When the VC's say "no"
	  
	  1.  Third, retool your plan. This is the hard part—changing the facts of your plan and what you are trying to do, to make your company more fundable. To describe the dimensions that you should consider as you contemplate retooling your plan, let me introduce the **onion theory of risk. If you’re an investor, you look at the risk around an investment as if it’s an onion. Just like you peel an onion and remove each layer in turn, risk in a startup investment comes in layers that get peeled away — reduced — one by one. Your challenge as an entrepreneur trying to raise venture capital is to keep peeling layers of risk off of your particular onion until the VCs say “yes” — until the risk in your startup is reduced to the point where investing in your startup doesn’t look terrifying and merely looks risky.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq6qvksc2h8v1z0zhcnhzg5))
		- **Note**: When the VC's (Venture Capitalists) say no to investing in your startup, you must change your plan so that it looks less risky to them. Think of it like an onion. When you peel away the layers of the onion, the risk of investing in your startup decreases. You need to keep peeling away these layers until the VCs say yes - until the risk of investing in your startup is low enough that it does not seem terrifying.
	- Personally, I’ll take the third position — **I’ll assert that market is the most important factor in a startup’s success or failure. Why? In a great market — a market with lots of real potential customers — the market pulls product out of the startup. The market needs to be fulfilled and the market will be fulfilled, by the first viable product that comes along. The product doesn’t need to be great; it just has to basically work. And, the market doesn’t care how good the team is, as long as the team can produce that viable product.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq6rwvrjjtrb3ygh2mydnxj))
		- **Note**: Marc Andreessen believes that the market is the most important factor in a startup's success or failure. In a great market with lots of potential customers, the market will be fulfilled by the first product that works. It doesn't have to be amazing - it just needs to work. The market doesn't care how good the team is, as long as they can make a product that works.
	- In honor of Andy Rachleff, formerly of Benchmark Capital, who crystallized this formulation for me, let me present Rachleff’s Law of Startup Success: **The #1 company-killer is lack of market.** Andy puts it this way:
	  
	  1.  When a great team meets a lousy market, market wins.
	  2.  When a lousy team meets a great market, market wins.
	  3.  When a great team meets a great market, something special happens. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq6spy9ghxersxf84fpgext))
		- **Note**: Marc Andreessen's blog post honors Andy Rachleff, formerly of Benchmark Capital, and presents Rachleff's Law of Startup Success: that the most significant factor in a company's success is its market. Rachleff explains that a great team will fail if it is in a lousy market, and a lousy team will succeed if it is in a great market. However, if both the team and the market are great, something special can happen.
	- Some signs of cultural corrosion caused by raising too much money:
	  
	  1.  Hiring too many people — slows everything down and makes it much harder for you to react and change. You are almost certainly setting yourself up for layoffs in the future, even if you are successful, because you probably won’t accurately allocate the hiring among functions for what you will really need as your business grows.
	  2.  Lazy management culture — it is easy for a management culture to get set where the manager’s job is simply to hire people, and then every other aspect of management suffers, with potentially disastrous long-term consequences to morale and effectiveness.
	  3.  Engineering team bloat — another side effect of hiring too many people; it’s very easy for engineering teams to get too large, and it happens very fast. And then the “Mythical Man Month” effect kicks in and everything slows to a crawl, your best people get frustrated and quit, and you’re in huge trouble.
	  4.  Lack of focus on product and customers — it’s a lot easier to not be completely obsessed with your product and your customers when you have a lot of money in the bank and don’t have to worry about your doors closing imminently.
	  5.  Too many salespeople too soon — are out selling a product that isn’t quite ready yet, hasn’t yet achieved Product/Market Fit — alienating early adopters and making it much harder to go back when the product does get right.
	  6.  Product schedule slippage — what’s the urgency? We have all this cash! Creating a golden opportunity for a smaller, scrappier startup to come along and kick your rear. So what should you do if you do raise a lot of money? As my old boss Jim Barksdale used to say, the main thing is to keep the main thing the main thing —be just as focused on product and customers when you raise a lot of money as you would be if you hadn’t raised a lot of money.
	  7.  Easy to say, hard to do, but worth it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq6tzy9dg2mtwx34g46g2rg))
		- **Note**: Marc Andreessen's blog archives discuss the potential cultural corrosion caused by raising too much money. These signs include hiring too many people, creating a lazy management culture, engineering team bloat, lack of focus on product and customers, too many salespeople too soon, product schedule slippage and a decrease in urgency. Andreessen suggests focusing on product and customers to counteract these effects.
	- **A startup’s initial business plan doesn’t matter that much, because it is very hard to determine up front exactly what combination of product and market will result in success. By definition you will be doing something new, in a world that is a very uncertain place. You are simply probably not going to know whether your initial idea will work as a product and a business, or not. And you will probably have to rapidly evolve your plan — possibly every aspect of it — as you go.** (The military has a saying that expresses the same concept — “No battle plan ever survives contact with the enemy.” In this case, your enemy is the world at large.) It is therefore much more important for a startup to aggressively seek out a big market, and product/market Ft within that market, once the startup is up and running, than it is to try to plan out what you are going to do in great detail ahead of time. The history of successful startups is quite clear on this topic. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq6ve550k9j8tv75c38dzhx))
		- **Note**: Starting a business is difficult to plan because it is new and unpredictable. Your initial idea may not even work out, so it is better to look for a big market and see if your product and the market fit together once you get going. You may have to change your plan a lot as you go, just like a soldier in a battle who has to change their plan as they fight. Trying to plan too much ahead of time is usually not successful.
	- When picking an industry to enter, my favorite rule of thumb is this:
	  
	  1.  **Pick an industry where the founders of the industry — the founders of the important companies in the industry — are still alive and actively involved. This is easy to figure out — just look at the CEO, chairman or chairwoman, and board of directors for the major companies in the industry. If the founders of the companies are currently serving as CEO, chairman or chairwoman, or board member of their companies, it’s a good industry to enter. It is probably still young and vital, and there are probably still opportunities to exploit all over the place, either at those companies or at new companies in that industry. Once you have picked an industry, get right to the center of it as fast as you possibly can. Your target is the core of change and opportunity — figure out where the action is and head there, and do not delay your progress for extraneous opportunities, no matter how lucrative they might be. Never worry about being a small fish in a big pond. Being a big fish in a small pond sucks—you will hit the ceiling on what you can achieve quickly, and nobody will care. Optimize at all times for being in the most dynamic and exciting pond you can find. That is where the great opportunities can be found. Apply this rule when selecting which company to start**
	  2.  **In a rapidly changing Held like technology, the best place to get experience when you’re starting out is in younger, highgrowth companies.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq6wexv5fdrqd1gsx41xw8f))
		- **Note**: Marc Andreessen suggests that when picking an industry, one should look for one where the founders of the important companies are still actively involved. He further advises to get to the center of the industry as soon as possible and not to worry about being a small fish in a big pond. He also advises that in a rapidly changing field such as technology, the best place to gain experience is in younger and high-growth companies.
	- Into the Watch List goes all the stuff going on in your life that you have to follow up on, wait for someone else to get back to you on, remind yourself of in the future, or otherwise remember. Into the Later List goes everything else—everything you might want to do or will do when you have time or wish you could do. If it doesn’t go on one of those three lists, it goes away. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq6xnyax40zywthf722qqvh))
	- My favorite way around this problem is the one identified by Clayton Christensen in The Innovator’s Dilemma: **don’t go after existing customers in a category and try to get them to buy something new; instead, go find the new customers who weren’t able to afford or adopt the incarnation of the status quo.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq6yxs4yf0hrg5wp74df652))
		- **Tags**: #[[innovation]]
		- **Note**: Clayton Christensen's approach, as outlined in The Innovator's Dilemma, is to avoid targeting existing customers and instead focus on finding new customers who may not be able to afford or use existing products.
	- **Those of you who read my first page and the entrepreneur post will recognize that this is a variation on the “optimize for the maximum number of swings of the bat” principle. In a highly uncertain world, a bias to action is key to catalyzing success, and luck, and is often to be preferred to thinking things through more thoroughly.**
	  
	  1.  **How curious are we? How determined are we to learn about our chosen field, other fields, and the world around us? In my post on hiring great people, I talked about the value I place on curiosity — and specifically, curiosity over intelligence. This is why. Curious people are more likely to already have in their heads the building blocks for creating a solution for any particular problem they come across, versus the more quote-unquote intelligent, but less curious, person who is trying to get by on logic and pure intellectual effort.**
	  2.  **How fIexible and aggressive are we at synthesizing– at linking together multiple, disparate, apparently unrelated experiences on the fly? I think this is a hard skill to consciously improve, but I think it is good to start most creative exercises with the idea that the solution may come from any of our past experiences or knowledge, as opposed to out of a textbook or the mouth of an expert. (And, if you are a manager and you have someone who is particularly good at synthesis, promote her as fast as you possibly can.)**
	  3.  **How uniquely are we developing a personal point of view — a personal approach– a personal set of “eccentric hobbies, personal lifestyles, and motor behaviors” that will uniquely prepare us to create? This, in a nutshell, is why I believe that most creative people are better off with more life experience and journeys into seemingly unrelated areas, as opposed to more formal domain-specific education — at least if they want to create. In short, I think there is a roadmap to getting luck on our side, and I think this is it.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq70dwxg27dyd4x5cs343kx))
		- **Note**: Marc Andreessen encourages readers to develop their curiosity, flexibility, and creativity in order to achieve success. He suggests that having a bias to action, rather than overthinking, is beneficial and that synthesizing past experiences and knowledge is a valuable skill. He also encourages gaining life experience and understanding one's own personal approach in order to create. In summary, Andreessen suggests that having an open-minded and creative approach is key to catalyzing success.