title:: Metaphors We Live By (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Metaphors We Live By"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/metaphors-we-live-by/
document_note:: This text explores the power of metaphors in shaping our understanding of life and how they influence our language, thinking, and culture. It highlights the importance of metaphor in conceptualizing the nonphysical, as well as the deep metaphors that are often not recognized as such. It emphasizes how understanding is rooted in experience, and how a theory of the human conceptual system must take into account how concepts are grounded, structured, related, and defined. Finally, it asserts that metaphors can create a new reality by influencing the way we perceive and interact with the world.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- Metaphor is principally a way of conceiving of one thing in terms of another, and its primary function is understanding. **We tend to conceptualize the nonphysical in terms of the physical – that is we conceptualize the less clearly delineated in terms of the more clearly delineated** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1b1tsjnmkkr1h2n9az8mk3))
	- We are concerned primarily with how people understand their experiences. We view language as providing data that can lead to general principles of understanding. The general principles involve whole systems of concepts rather than individual words or individual concepts. We have found that such principles are often metaphoric in nature and involve understanding one kind of experience in terms of another kind of experience – **this suggests that understanding takes place in terms of entire domains of experience and not in terms of isolated concepts** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1b175nn0gsv2evn19abt79))
		- **Note**: People use language to try to understand their experiences. We can learn how to understand things by looking at the whole picture, not just individual words or ideas. Often, understanding happens when we think of one experience in terms of another, which means we look at the larger picture and not just single ideas.
	- •   **The deepest metaphors in a culture aren’t recognized as metaphors at all.** “Time as a resource” changes how we conceive of leisure, turning it into something remarkably like labor and hides that work can be play, that inactivity can be productive, that much of what we classify as labor serves either no clear purpose or no worthwhile purpose ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1b0v2gy1gnsnjjmampftja))
		- **Note**: The most important ideas in a culture are not always seen as ideas. When we think of time as a valuable thing to use, it makes us think of leisure activities as if they are work, and it can make us forget that work can also be enjoyable, that it's okay to take breaks and be inactive, and that sometimes what we call work doesn't really have a good reason.
	- **The power of new metaphors is that they can create a new reality. The acceptance of the metaphors, which forces us to focus only on those aspects of our experience that it highlights, leads us to view the entailments of the metaphor as being true**. Consider the power of the frame in the following two contrasting views of love: “Love as War” and “Love as collaborative art” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1b0fmtjhhbb67nqfbzn1wn))
		- **Note**: Metaphors are powerful because they can help us see the world in a different way. When we accept a metaphor, it makes us focus on certain things and makes us think that the ideas of the metaphor are true. For example, when we think about love, we can think about it as a war or a collaboration.