title:: Miguel Fuentes & Marco Buongiorno Nardelli on Music, Emergence, and Society (highlights)
author:: [[COMPLEXITY]]
full-title:: "Miguel Fuentes & Marco Buongiorno Nardelli on Music, Emergence, and Society"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/5f73ac0d-0ce1-424e-bdb5-6ee9f96cbe7a

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Music Theory - What Is It About?
	  
	  Summary:
	  There is a kind of, to think about it in terms f like music theory approach, there is a dominant or a tonic. In language, you have these words that are at the hub and things can circle out from and back to them. It's very complex in the sense that music is different from language in the sensethat the message the music conveys is not apparently very clear yet. And so one of things that fascinate me is to see what happens if i use the patterns or structures that come from the evolution of music as we know it, but apply to it a set of completely different units.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  And that, at least in the western compositional tradition, and apparently across all the linguistic corpora you examined. You don't get reversible letter or melodic sequences. That there is a kind of, to think about it in terms f like music theory approach, there is a dominant or a tonic or in language, you have these words that are at the hub, you know, that things can have circle out from and back to and, you know, they have greater centrality. So, ye, i just love to hear you talk about that thing, you know, that pattern that we observe, in its relationship to this notion of the unequal distribution of things over a landscape of possibility.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  So it's funny that you somn me mention wo te morges becaue. There is a etort that i give for cologm like talk where i make a similarity between the approach of borges in the library of bato and my kind of starting point of looking at the harmonic spaces and using the 12 tones or the 24 tones and using the keys of the piano an song. Because, in a way, we can, if we want to, be completely deterministic and just not build all the possibilities. And then go from there. But on one hand, we know that ther are structure tat most likely evolved from our perception of music as no humans, and howthe the music evolved with us over the course of and tosen ovierse. But also, on the artistic point of view, its a space that is open to exploration. And so one of things that fascinate me is to see what happens if i use the patterns or structures that come from the evolution of music as we know it, but apply to it a set of completely different units in a way that are not part of the traditional music theory of music tunes we use somin. It's a very interesting questionof at various levels. It's very complex in the sense that music is different from language in the sense that the message the music conveys is not apparently very clear yet. For it is clear that music changes our emotional states. It changes our perception of things, but it's not clear why we have music, and all of human society have music, or where is this coming from, and what is theevrutiary advantage of having music as one of our traits that makes us human? And the other thing that from here, again, goes to another kind of framework that i use in some of my docks. There is ey, let's suppose that we haveyi make this similarities. And this idea of the voyage, not the voyager, is has broad as going outside of the solar system. And for some reason they decided that we had to have a disk with music recordings and some very kind of stilise the instructions on how to hear this recording, or make a device that can make you hear what is in this disk. But what if this disk goes into the hands of another civilization, another planet, where they don't have music as part of the evolutionary trats, but they are super good with data, better than us. Can they appreciate the structure of what we are sending them by looking at the data in an aesthetic way? And so this is also another thing that adds to the playt and this discussion, and connects this data and me althese things about artificial intelligence and art. So it brings another element to the table of music andstructiore and topologies and evolution and cultures and societies. And that's all, yes. ([Time 0:19:02](https://share.snipd.com/snip/e087133c-b22a-4e79-8534-4f241e7e3b83))