title:: Mindstorms: Children, Computers, and Powerful Ideas (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Mindstorms: Children, Computers, and Powerful Ideas"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/mindstorms/
document_note:: This book discusses how computers and computational thinking can be used to challenge current beliefs about who can understand what and at what age. It explores the potential of computers to be carriers of powerful ideas and to help people form new relationships with knowledge. It draws on ideas from Piaget and Seymour, who argued that children learn best when they are actively engaged in constructing things in the world and working on meaningful projects. The book also emphasizes the importance of being able to assimilate new knowledge to existing models, and argues that computers can be used to bridge the divide between the humanities and sciences. Finally, it suggests that computers can help to change our cultural view of learning, so that failure is seen not as a sign of being 'dumb' but as an opportunity to improve upon the game of learning.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- Slowly I began to formulate what I still consider the fundamental fact about learning: **Anything is easy if you can assimilate it to your collection of models. If you can’t, anything can be painfully difficult.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw8k5qcgyazygyhjsb1q8kz))
		- **Note**: Models as a guide 🔭
		  Anything is easy to learn 🤔
		  Painfully difficult otherwise 💡
	- The question to ask about the program is not whether it is right or wrong, but if it is fixable. If this way of looking at intellectual products were generalized to how the larger culture thinks about knowledge and its acquisition, we all might be less intimidated by our fears of “being wrong.” This potential influence of the computer on changing our notion of a black and white version of our successes and failures is an example of using the computer as an “object-to-think-with.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw8kw02pyn6r0qt0gwxc2sv))
		- **Note**: This part of the book is talking about how computers can help us think about our intelligence and successes and failures in a different way. Instead of thinking of things as being either right or wrong, we can think of them as being fixable. This idea means that when we make mistakes, it doesn't mean we are wrong, it just means we can fix them. Using computers as a tool to help us think in this way can help us become less scared of making mistakes.
	- Plato wrote over his door, "let only geometers enter." Times have changed. Most of those who now seek to enter Plato’s intellectual world neither know mathematics nor sense the least contradiction in their disregard for his injunction. Our culture’s schizophrenic split between “humanities” and “science” supports their sense of security. Plato was a philosopher, and philosophy belongs to the humanities as surely as mathematics belongs to the sciences. This great divide is thoroughly built into our language, our worldview, our social organization, our educational system, and, most recently, even our theories of neurophysiology. It is self-perpetuating: The more the culture is divided, the more each side builds separation into its new growth. I have already suggested that the computer may serve as a force to break down the line between the “two cultures.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw8n7rzqj00gkphnd2ezcgr))
		- **Note**: Plato wrote a sign that said "only people who know math can enter". But now, most of the people who want to learn from Plato don't know math, and they don't think it's a problem. Our culture has two different parts, a part for science and a part for humanities. This is in our language, the way we think, how we organize things, and even in our schools. It's like a cycle: the more divided our culture is, the more it stays that way. Computers might help us break down the line between the two parts.
	- •   **Our children grow up in a culture permeated with the idea that there are “smart people” and “dumb people.” The social construction of the individual is as a bundle of aptitudes. There are people who are “good at math” and people who “can’t do math.” Everything is set up for children to attribute their first unsuccessful or unpleasant learning experiences to their own disabilities. As a result, children perceive failure as relegating them either to the group of “dumb people” or, more often, to a group of people “dumb at x” (where, as we have pointed out, x often equals mathematics). Within this framework children will define themselves in terms of their limitations, and this definition will be consolidated and reinforced throughout their lives. Only rarely does some exceptional event lead people to reorganize their intellectual self-image in such a way as to open up new perspectives on what is learnable.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw8mmcv5apwbchvf7byrd20))
		- **Note**: This passage is saying that children grow up in a culture where there are people who are "smart" and people who are "dumb". People are judged by how good they are at certain things, like math. When children fail or have a bad experience learning something, they often think they are "dumb" or "not good" at that one thing. This thought can stay with them and become part of their self-image, even if they are actually good at other things. It takes something special to help them realize that they can learn and be good at different things.