title:: My Own Life (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "My Own Life"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/my-own-life/
document_note:: David Hume, a Scottish philosopher and historian, wrote his autobiography in a detached and humble way, reflecting on his successes and disappointments. Despite his disappointments, Hume remained optimistic and retained his spirit, feeling that his declining years were his most enjoyable. He was known for his mild disposition, open and social nature, and lack of enmity, even towards those who attacked him. Hume did not suffer from vanity in writing his autobiography, but believed it was a factual account of his character and conduct.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 17th, 2023]]
	- "**I was, I own, sanguine in my expectations of the success of this work...I expected proportional applause. But miserable was my disappointment**: I was assailed by one cry of reproach, disapprobation, and even detestation; English, Scotch, and Irish, Whig and Tory, churchman and sectary, freethinker and religionist, patriot and courtier, united in their rage against the man, who had presumed to shed a generous tear for the fate of Charles I. and the Earl of Strafford; and after the first ebullitions of their fury were over, what was still more mortifying, the book seemed to sink into oblivion. Mr. Millar told me, that in a twelvemonth he sold only forty-five copies of it." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gse80wtb7aj9cr7fzbpz3ksc))
		- **Note**: "I thought the book I wrote would be successful and I thought people would like it. But I was wrong. Everyone was very angry at me for writing the book. People from England, Scotland, Ireland, and other places, people who were different kinds of politicians, different kinds of religious people, and even people who didn't believe in religion were all mad at me. Even after they calmed down, the book was forgotten. Mr. Millar said that he only sold forty-five copies of it in a year."
	- "I was struck with a disorder in my bowels, which at first gave me no alarm, but has since, as I apprehend it, become mortal and incurable. I now reckon upon a speedy dissolution. I have suffered very little pain from my disorder; and what is more strange, have, notwithstanding the great decline of my person, never suffered a moment's abatement of my spirits; insomuch, that were I to name a period of my life, which I should most choose to pass over again, I might be tempted to point to this later period. I possess the same ardour as ever in study, and the same gaiety in company. I consider, besides, that a man of sixty-five, by dying, cuts off only a few years of infirmities; and though I see many symptoms of my literary reputation's breaking out at last with additional lustre, I knew that I could have but few years to enjoy it. **It is difficult to be more detached from life than I am at present.**" ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gse82kptbxq5sx84pf5ds1w7))
		- **Tags**: #[[death]] #[[gratitude]]
		- **Note**: "I was sick with an illness in my stomach that I thought was not serious at first, but now I think it is going to be deadly and I can't be cured. I haven't felt much pain from it and I'm still happy and excited about studying and being with people. I am 65 years old and I know that I won't live much longer, but I am still very excited about the recognition I am getting for my work. It is hard to be more ready to leave life than I am now."
	- "**I was, I say, a man of mild disposition, of command of temper, of an open, social, and cheerful humour, capable of attachment, but little susceptible of enmity, and of great moderation in all my passions.** Even my love of literary fame, my ruling passion, never soured my temper, notwithstanding my frequent disappointments. My company was not unacceptable to the young and careless, as well as to the studious and literary; and as I took a particular pleasure in the company of modest women, I had no reason to be displeased with the reception I met with from them. In a word, though most men, any wise eminent, have found reason to complain of calumny, I never was touched, or even attacked by her baleful tooth: and though I wantonly exposed myself to the rage of both civil and religious factions, they seemed to be disarmed in my behalf of their wonted fury. My friends never had occasion to vindicate any one circumstance of my character and conduct: Not but that the zealots, we may well suppose, would have been glad to invent and propagate any story to my disadvantage, but they could never find any which they thought would wear the face of probability. I cannot say there is no vanity in making this funeral oration of myself, but I hope it is not a misplaced one; and this is a matter of fact which is easily cleared and ascertained." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gse81nc0b6e2239gpf9vkhk2))
		- **Note**: I was a calm and kind person who was friendly and enjoyed being with people. I was not easily angered and I was careful not to get too excited. Even when I didn't get the recognition I wanted, I never got upset. People liked being around me, especially modest women, and I was always welcomed. Even though people who didn't like me wanted to find something bad to say about me, they never could. I don't think it is wrong to say nice things about myself, and I can prove that it's true.