title:: Nicholas Bloom on Management, Productivity, and Scientific Progress (highlights)
author:: [[Conversations with Tyler]]
full-title:: "Nicholas Bloom on Management, Productivity, and Scientific Progress"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/3a1e2f5b-cade-4019-b0ef-cf1cb9d9f73a

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- How Long Will It Take Before Productivity Declines?
	  
	  Summary:
	  Only something like forty per cent of americans can work from home. This accounts for fifty six per cent of g d p, because they tend to be higher earning individuals. But in the long run, i fear there'll be a drop in patenting in twenty twenty one, twenty twenty two because of this. And the question is, how firms to respond? My guesses, from talking to a lot of u s companies, as they will return partly to the office. That's kind of the best of both worlds. I don't think need o in the office five days a week to be creative, but you do need time e reat with colleagues. So i'm not too worried
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  We're speaking in july, twenty twenty, given that there's so much working at home going on right now, how long will it take before te company productivity declines as people grow frustrated or disconnected, or they become too restless it's too hard to bring on board new hires? How much time do we have before things really start to fray? Great question.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Is it. Just to be clear, my thoughts, am working for hime in the short run, working from home. For those of us that can't, it ust to be clearer, only something like forty per cent of americans can work from home. But for those and that, but that accounts for something like fifty six per cent of g d p, because they tend to be higher earning individuals. So for those of us that can work from home, the evidence looks like, in the short run, that increases productivity, as long as you've reasonable conditions like, you know, proper intonat ind a room, your own exclusive room to work in. A the big quest, you know, that's research ive. You know, tat i had od paper looking in china, and we showed very large increases in wha i called short run productivity from people working in cool centres. The big unknown, and which there's little evidence. I'm working in, i know other people are looking at this too, which is, what's the impact on longer run productivity, which the concept of come back to beginning, the poke about kind of creation and innovation? So lots of claims, including funo. Steve jobbs, before he passed away, made several comments about, a, he wanted people to be in the office, you know, you have to be there for the new ideas come up from water cooler discussions and meetings. Ond one and one stuff. And obviously, under cove and that sort stooled so none of that will really show up right now. You know, you can get away for three to six, maybe even nine months, probably a not radically creating new things. But in the long run, i fear there'll be a drop in, say, patenting in twenty twenty one, twenty twenty two because of this. And the question is, how firms to respond? My guesses, from talking to a lot of u s companies, as they will return partly to the office. So i think in the long run, working from home will be fine, cause we'll be in the office three days a week and two days a week at home. That's kind of the best of both worlds. I don't think need o in the office five days a week to be creative, but you do need time e reat with colleagues. So i'm not too worried. Now why i think we'll be problematic as if we're in late twenty twenty one, we were still all one hundred per cent working from home, then i'uld really worry about impacts and productivity. ([Time 0:47:38](https://share.snipd.com/snip/282c121d-2281-442b-9105-b763ef474ffe))