title:: Non-Zero: The Logic of Human Destiny (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Non-Zero: The Logic of Human Destiny"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/non-zero/
document_note:: Non-Zero Sum games have been suggested as the driving force for biological life, and Robert Wright argues that the directionality of time can be explained in terms of NZS games. As technology advances, people become more embedded in webs of mutual interdependence, allowing for positive sum interactions and higher social complexity. Population density, technological advancement, and openness to new technology are all seen as predictors of social complexity. The author also proposes that competition, survival, and natural selection push species to become more adapted and complex in their behavior, and that traits such as eyesight and reciprocal altruism have evolved independently multiple times in different species.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- Game theory was developed by von Neumann. Zero sum games are games in which one person’s win means another person’s loss (sports) whereas Non-Zero sum games aren’t necessarily negative for one party. The authors argue that NZS games are a driving force for the world has been shaped. NZS games can be win/win, win/lose, lose/win, or lose/lose ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5p3xhz3kc6ww3awy3p22y))
	- Increasing NZS leads to a more interconnected and codependent world where you not only care about your local neighbors but also the global community as trade commerce and ideas seamlessly transfer from one area to another ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5p9fwjd8hkp7zdqnz2a0e))
		- **Note**: Non-Zero Sum (NZS) is an idea that suggests that if people cooperate, the result will be more than the sum of their individual efforts. This idea leads to a world that is more interconnected, with people caring about not only their local neighbors but also the global community. As a result of this interconnectedness, ideas and commerce can be exchanged more easily between different areas.
	- NZS is responsible for reciprocal altruism love has evolution selected for those who could cooperate with each other and survive and this helped in hard times when others with chip in to pay back your favor ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5qr54385fzsk90nbc6d2q))
		- **Note**: Non-Zero Sum (NZS) is the concept that reciprocal altruism is beneficial for survival, as evolution has favored those who can cooperate with each other. This has been particularly useful in difficult times, as it encourages individuals to help each other out in order to repay a favor.
	- Time's arrow does not necessarily point towards complexity but competition, survival, and natural selection push species to become more adapted and more complex in their thinking and behavior just in order to survive. If there was no competition and no threat of being eaten, animals don’t naturally just become more complex. Positive feedback at play ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5pr56rfy6vswkpme3qr82))
		- **Note**: Non-Zero: The Logic of Human Destiny suggests that competition, survival, and natural selection push species to become more complex in their thinking and behavior in order to survive. This is due to positive feedback at play, rather than simply the passage of time.