title:: On Purposeful Systems (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "On Purposeful Systems"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/on-purposeful-systems/
document_note:: This text is about systems thinking and the concept of purposeful systems. It argues that traditional approaches of examining phenomena through segmented disciplines may be inadequate when dealing with the complexity of life. The text also discusses different types of systems and the pursuit of objectives, suggesting that the formulation and pursuit of ideals is a means by which people can make meaning out of their lives, and provides cohesiveness and continuity to extended and unpredictable processes. Knowledge is seen as a means-oriented concept. Finally, it is stated that organisms do not have purposeful elements, whereas the constituents of an organization each have their own purpose.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- Logic - the art of thinking and reasoning in strict accordance with the limitation and incapacities of the human misunderstanding. - The Devil's Dictionary ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq891h86hq6mk4rfknbrqb2))
	- While acknowledging that disciplinary segmentation evolved as a way of coping with the complexity of the universe and the study of it, systems theorists challenge the presumption that the world is best understood by segmenting our investigation of it into discrete disciplinary areas, each of which specializes in a particular perspective, level of analysis, or phenomena. Systems theorists argue that such an approach may not be the most appropriate one for meaningfully addressing the complexity of life, and also point to the limitations this structure imposes on the advancement of general and integrative knowledge. Perhaps, one of the most tangible manifestations of this problem can be seen in the curriculum of the average undergraduate student, which offers up a biological view of life in the first hour, a psychological view second hour, a communication view third hour, sociological fourth, political science fifth, and so on, as if human behavior could be best comprehended when compartmentalized in such a manner. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq89ev2ad96v8hhr4wzkb8t))
		- **Note**: Systems theorists believe that it is not the best way to understand the world by breaking up our study of it into different subject areas. They think that this method can't really help us understand the complexity of life and it makes it harder to gain a general understanding of everything. This can be seen in how many colleges teach different subjects in different hours, like biology in the first hour, psychology in the second hour and so on. It's like they think the best way to understand human behavior is to divide it into smaller pieces.
	- Nature does not come to us in disciplinary form. Phenomena are not physical, chemical, biological, and so on. The disciplines are the ways we study phenomena; they emerge from points of view, not from what is viewed. Hence the disciplinary nature of science is a filing system of knowledge. Its organization is not to be confused with the organization of nature itself...In brief, the need to assemble knowledge of our world into one cohesive view derives from the necessity to take it apart in order to penetrate it in depth. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq85jq1hj6jpcrq9tzc1d1t))
		- **Note**: Nature is not split into different parts like physical, chemical, or biological. Instead, the way we study nature comes from different points of view. This means science is like a way to organize what we know about nature. The way we organize it is not the same as how it is organized in real life. We need to take apart nature and look at it in many different ways in order to understand it better.
	- System: a set of interrelated elements, each of which is related directly or indirectly to every other element, and no subset of which is unrelated to any other subset. Hence, a system is composed of at least 2 elements and a relation that holds each of its elements and at least one other element in the set. The elements form a completely connected set that is not decomposable into unrelated subsets. Therefore, although a system may itself be part of a larger system it cannot be decomposed into independent subsystems
	  
	  1.  Abstract system - a system all of whose elements are concepts
	  2.  Concrete system - a system at least two of whose elements are objects ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq85wf45xhfz4zxvt1whtjs))
	- Ideal - an outcome that can never be obtained but can be approached without limit ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq862r45cz036a55ep1vdt6))
	- Purposeful choices come from [[perception]], [consciousness] (the perception of the mental state of another or oneself), and memory ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq88t4jqc8vp2mn7w1skptc))
	- Models are used because they are easier to manipulate than reality itself. This usually arises from the fact that the images and concepts that make up the models are usually easier to manipulate than is reality, and from their being usually simpler than reality ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq866n5mys26vnnbf39f8yp))
	- Hypothesis - a belief (which has some doubt associated with it) in the past, present, or future existence of something that has never been perceived ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq8895b53m8rg4c72q7m0h4))
		- **Tags**: #[[experimentation]]
	- A purposeful individual has 3 different ways of disposing of a problem: dissolution, resolution, and solution
	  
	  1.  An individual who has a problem can change his intentions so that his dissatisfaction dissolves. It is the removal (production of the subsequent absence) of a problem situation by a purposeful individual who is in it, by a change in that individual's intentions
	  2.  Resolution of a problem - the removal of a problem situation by a purposeful individual who is in it, by an arbitrary choice
	  3.  Solving a problem requires answering two questions - what alternatives are available and which one is best or good enough ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq86dxbkfxg4x30fdp41vxf))
	- Organisms and organizations are fundamentally different. Both organisms and organizations are purposeful systems, but organisms do not contain purposeful elements. The elements of an organism may be functional, goal-seeking, or multi-goal-seeking, but not purposeful. In an organism only the whole can display will; none of its parts can. Because an organism is a system that has a functional division of labor it can also be said to be organized. Its functionally distinct parts are called organs. Their functioning is necessary but not sufficient for accomplishment of the organism's purpose(s) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq86mbpcc7gqrs50xf8ntd7))
		- **Note**: Organisms and organizations are different. An organism is like a machine that is made up of different parts. The parts of an organism cannot make decisions on their own, only the whole organism can decide what to do. All the parts have a job to do and they must all work together in order for the organism to do what it needs to do. The parts of an organism are called organs, and their job is necessary but not enough to achieve the goal of the organism.
	- Many wise men have observed that there is more satisfaction in pursuing an end than in attaining it; to play a game well yields more satisfaction than does winning it. Also, some have observed that the researcher's and manager's objective is not so much to solve problems as it is to create more challenging and important problems to work on by solving the one at hand. This is to say that the continuous pursuit of more desirable ends is an end in itself, and hence that the attainment of a specific end can be conceptualized as a means to such pursuit. Such observations suggest that a pervasive objective of man and the social systems of which he is a part is the successful pursuit of increasingly desirable objectives. If this is so, then it is reasonable for man and the social systems of which he is part to formulate objectives that can be pursued without end but can be continually approached. Man seeks objectives that enable him to convert the attainment of every goal into a means for the attainment of a new and more desirable goal. The ultimate objective in such a sequence cannot be obtainable; otherwise its attainment would put an end to the process. And end that satisfies these conditions is an *ideal.* Ideal pursuit can provide cohesiveness and continuity to extended and unpredictable processes, to life and history. Thus the formulation and pursuit of ideals is a means by which man puts meaning and significance into his life and into the history of which he is a part. It also provides the possibility of deriving satisfaction from a life that must end but that can contribute to a history that may not. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq873xvvse59cbphxgxxr93))
		- **Note**: The text discusses the idea that man and social systems seek to pursue increasingly desirable objectives, and that the pursuit of such ideals can give meaning and satisfaction to life and history. It suggests that the ultimate objective in such a pursuit cannot be obtainable, and that the attainment of any goal should be viewed as a means to a new and more desirable goal.