title:: On the Shortness of Life by Lucius Annaeus Seneca (highlights)
author:: [[The Rabbit Hole]]
full-title:: "On the Shortness of Life by Lucius Annaeus Seneca"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/on-the-shortness-of-life/
document_note:: Seneca argues that men often waste their lives away by neglecting the present and worrying about the past and future. He encourages people to make every day count, suggesting they live passionately and with purpose. He also emphasizes that it is important to take time to reflect and engage in philosophy in order to truly live. He warns that one should not trust fortune or rely on it, as it can lead to anxiety. Ultimately, Seneca encourages people to make the most of their present and to not take life for granted.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 16th, 2023]]
	- •   **Men may live to be old but may not live at all.** Do not be distracted by pointless actions, jobs, thoughts, people, etc. **Live passionately and you will live a long life no matter how young you die**
	  •   The man who lives correctly is never worried about dying
	  •   Everyone hurries his life on and suffers from a yearning for the future and a weariness of the present. But he who bestows all of his time on his own needs, who plans out every day as if it were his last, neither longs for nor fears the morrow. For what new pleasure is there that any hour can now bring? They are all known, all have been enjoyed to the full.
	  •   **And so there is no reason for you to think that any man has lived long because he has grey hairs or wrinkles; he has not lived long—he has existed long.**
	  •   But no one sets a value on time; all use it lavishly as if it cost nothing. But see how these same people clasp the knees of physicians if they fall ill and the danger of death draws nearer, see how ready they are, if threatened with capital punishment, to spend all their possessions in order to live! So great is the inconsistency of their feelings. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsa6kgxchde35g8ashbbth5p))
		- **Note**: This passage from "On the Shortness of Life" by Lucius Annaeus Seneca highlights the importance of living life with passion, rather than simply existing, in order to truly live a long life. He argues that time should be valued and not wasted, and that people often forget this truth until faced with death. He states that a person's age does not determine how long they have truly lived, and that only those who live passionately can truly say that they have lived a long life, regardless of their age.
	- Honours, monuments, all that ambition has commanded by decrees or reared in works of stone, quickly sink to ruin; there is nothing that the lapse of time does not tear down and remove. But the works which philosophy has consecrated cannot be harmed; no age will destroy them, no age reduce them; the following and each succeeding age will but increase the reverence for them, since envy works upon what is close at hand, and things that are far off we are more free to admire. The life of the philosopher, therefore, has wide range, and he is not confined by the same bounds that shut others in. He alone is freed from the limitations of the human race; all ages serve him as if a god. He makes his life long by combining all times into one. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsa6pz3n2p8tsywek0w2j344))
		- **Note**: Honours, monuments, and things that ambitious people make with money or build from stone, will eventually be ruined. Nothing is safe from the passing of time. But the things that philosophers do and create can't be harmed. Every age will not only keep them safe, but also show more respect for them. People are more likely to appreciate something they don't see every day. Philosophers live longer and more meaningful lives because they make all the ages seem like one. They are not limited by the same things that limit everyone else and all ages respect them like they are gods.
	- **But those who forget the past, neglect the present, and fear for the future have a life that is very brief and troubled**; when they have reached the end of it, the poor wretches perceive too late that for such a long while they have been busied in doing nothing. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsa6rptj558t9tsq1377ym28))
		- **Note**: Those who forget past: 🗝
		  neglecting present, fearing future 💔
		  brief, troubled life awaits 💀
	- You will hear many men saying: “After my fiftieth year I shall retire into leisure, my sixtieth year shall release me from public duties.” And what guarantee, pray, have you that your life will last longer? Who will suffer your course to be just as you plan it? Are you not ashamed to reserve for yourself only the remnant of life, and to set apart for wisdom only that time which cannot be devoted to any business? How late it is to begin to live just when we must cease to live! What foolish forgetfulness of mortality to postpone wholesome plans to the fiftieth and sixtieth year, and to intend to begin life at a point to which few have attained ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsa6t5qnpb30pdxbwvnkxsgn))
		- **Note**: Too late to start the life 🤔
		  forget mortality's call 🕯️
		  begin now, wise not late 🤓
	- All the greatest blessings are a source of anxiety, and at no time should fortune be less trusted than when it is best ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsa6v91mmmnzgz8dsv3v5b72))