title:: Optimizing Workspace for Productivity, Focus, & Creativity | Episode 57 (highlights)
author:: [[Huberman Lab]]
full-title:: "Optimizing Workspace for Productivity, Focus, & Creativity | Episode 57"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/74ea9022-e317-4db6-a75a-8455f5a21d09

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Dec 31st, 2022]]
	- How to Stay Focused Throughout the Day With Visual Placement
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* When we say, "I can't focus," what we often are experiencing is an inability to not focus visually., * In terms of workspace optimization, what this means is that we never want to be looking at a square or rectangle or target area for our work that is too far beyond our ears. How far is too far? Really, you want to try and keep the blinders on, or I should say the invisible blinders, so that whatever you're looking at falls within the region of visual space in front of you that is present if you were to cup your hands and put them right next to your eyes.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  When we say, I can't focus, what we often are experiencing is an inability, excuse me, to not focus visually. Whereas when we are in a very focused state, we are in a state often where we can focus visually. Now, we can also do this with our auditory system or to touch, et cetera, but right now we're just talking about the visual system. Now, in terms of workspace optimization, what this means is we never really want to be looking at a square or rectangle or target area for our work that is too far beyond our ears. How far is too far? Really, you want to try and keep the blinders on, or I should say the invisible blinders, so that whatever you're looking at falls within the region of visual space in front of you that is present if you were to cup your hands and put them right next to your eyes. Now, this is a rough estimation, but I'm doing this now. For those of you that are watching on YouTube, I'm doing this now. I'm trying to simulate a horse with blinders on. For those of you that are listening, just imagine me looking silly with my hands cupped near my eyes. But if we are to, for instance, look at a screen that's very, very big and we're too close to it, or even if we're standing back from it, it's going to be hard for us to attend to everything within that screen space. So this is actually support for the idea of using a phone or a tablet or a laptop. My laptop is about 15 inches in diameter, I think is the one that I have. Some are 13, some are 17. Some of you like to use big monitors. Make sure that whatever it is that you're looking at, if you want to remain focused, it doesn't extend too far beyond where your eyes are, the sides of your head, that is. So just think blinders on a horse. And actually, that's the reason they put blinders on a horse so that they're not looking off into the periphery. Horses, unlike humans, don't have the same shaped pupil. They don't have a visual system that's organizing quite the same way. They mostly see in panorama in magnus color vision. And so those blinders are designed to keep their visual focus straight ahead, so they physically restrict it. Now, some people will actually go to lengths to further restrict their visual focus. They will do things like putting on a hoodie or wearing a hat, for instance, to restrict their visual window. And indeed, that works quite well. But as we'll talk about in a moment, when you really restrict your visual window down to a very, very narrow portion of visual space, that actually changes the types of information that you are best at processing. And we'll talk about that in terms of something that's called the cathedral effect in a few moments. But for now, here's the principle. Make sure that whatever you're looking at is directly in front of you and doesn't extend too far out to the side. Once you get out to, say, 6 or 12 or certainly 18 inches on either side of your eyes, you are dilating your gaze. By definition, you're dilating your gaze. It's completely subconscious. And it becomes very hard to maintain attention. Now, the caveat to this is that if you are going to look at a narrow space, a narrow window for any period of time, whether or not it's a book or a laptop or a tablet or a phone, those virgins eye movements not only create alertness, but they also require energy. And they also can fatigue the eyes because there's a process called accommodation whereby the shape of your eye literally has to change so that the lens can move so that you can focus at that location. Accommodation is an incredible process, but it is a demanding one. And that's the reason that your eyes get tired when you focus on something for too long. So here's a principle extracted from the ophthalmology and neuroscience literature that you can adopt. For every 45 minutes in which you are focusing on something like a phone or a tablet or a book page or your computer, you want to get into MagnaSeller panoramic vision for at least five minutes. And the way that I suggest to do this is actually to take a walk ideally outside. We're going to talk about ambulation, about movement and about how that can maintain alertness throughout the day. So for every 45 minutes or so, try and get five minutes of relaxing your eyes. This is something that's not often done, especially in today's homeschooling and where kids are going to school by Zoom and adults are working by Zoom. This is a serious problem. People are getting eye fatigue. They're getting headaches. Indeed, some people are getting migraines. They're having all sorts of issues, neck pain. Much of that, if not all of that in some cases can be alleviated by this 45 to five rule for every 45 minutes of focused work that you do. Get five minutes where you get outside or if you have to be indoors where you can dilate your gaze. Now, some of you may be saying, well, that spits in the face of your 90 minute rule. You're trying to, you've told us before that we should focus for 90 minutes. I would still want you to take breaks within those 90 minutes. If you're looking at a narrow piece of visual world, meaning at a phone or a laptop or so forth. And again, the best way to do this would be to go outside. Just relax your eyes, look off into the distance. Looking at a horizon will automatically trigger this panoramic gaze, which is very relaxing to the eyes and will allow you to go back into a focused work about. The one thing you absolutely do not want to do is to go outside and check your phone because if you're outside checking your phone or you're taking a break and checking your phone, you're still in that Virgin's eye movement. Okay. So this is very, very important because Virgin's eye movements increase focus and attention. And you can exploit that to increase focus and attention when you want to, but you absolutely need to relax the system. Again, for every 45 minutes in which you've been in that focused mode, you want to get at least five minutes of panoramic vision. If you can take a 15 minute walk, even better. ([Time 0:38:48](https://share.snipd.com/snip/7042ed35-63a4-49d6-a363-b3dc43f18692))