title:: Peter Attia, MD on Becoming a Centenarian Decathlete, Metabolic Health & All Things Zone 2 (highlights)
author:: [[The Rich Roll Podcast]]
full-title:: "Peter Attia, MD on Becoming a Centenarian Decathlete, Metabolic Health & All Things Zone 2"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/d209763c-ee49-4c53-8e27-b7f66de48756

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- How to Recruit Your Hamstrings
	  
	  Summary:
	  There is a fundamental difference between having a strong muscle and knowing how to recruit it. I have always prided myself in having just the strongest legs, right? And so what that says is it doesn't actually matter how strong your ham strings are, you can't recruit them. You have to be able to keep those ham strings recruited to keep that pelvis in the right position. For me, i think my kids are the greatest source of joy in my life.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Watch in him, thet a million pull ups for him. And he's like, yat's horrible. Like, your technique is so bad. You have no scapular control whatsoever. You are transmitting so much force into your elbows doing that because you can't keep your scapula in place. Another big aha moment, which actually ties into what you said about the glots. There is a fundamental difference between having a strong muscle and knowing how to recruit it. And for me, the aha moment came with my ham strings. I have always prided myself in having just the strongest legs, right? I mean, you know, cyclists have strong legs. A dead lift, tons of weight. I do insane amounts of stupid leg curls, a every you name it, i'll do it. But when i was placed on the floor in a very simple position, lying on your back, knees bent, feet flat on the floor, could i, without screwing around in my pelvis, just pull back with my feet, a pure hamstring recruitment? No, could not. I can't do that either. Couldn't do it. And so what that says is it doesn't actually matter how strong your ham strings are, you can't recruit them. And if you can't recruit them, your pelvis is tilted forward. You have to be able to keep those ham strings recruited to keep that pelvis in the right position. I mean, it took me a year of daily, i mean, just grinding away at these movements and this practice. And now it's hard for me to remember what it was like to not be able to recruit my hamstrings. So ica unlearn these patterns. But the irony of it is, the more of an athletic background you have, the longer it will actually take you to unlearn, cause you have more bad stuff. Those lieral pathways are so they're so bador so wirenow the good news is you have the reps on how to do stuff. So i think its a wash taking an untrained person and teaching them, versus taking a highly trained person and teaching them. Takes about the same amount of time, but for different reasons. Yes. I mean, the athlete knows how to commit to something and fall through. But the trick is the lightbald moment, right? Which is usually triggered by an injury that forces them to the mat, right?
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  That's the situation that i'm in.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  So for your sentenarian olympics, like, what are, what are the events that you're working towards? Like, what are the categories? You know, for me, i think my kids are the greatest source of joy in my life. So a, you know, my hope is that my kids have kids and that we're in proximity to them, and just get to do the kind of stuff with them that i get to do with my kids right now. A so again, it's silly, simple stuff. But again, i'm fortunate that, you know, i still have two boys that are young, five and eight. And so i realize to play with them is hard. Like, they play on the floor, you know, we're in lego where we're building tracks, where pushing trucks, were doing that stuff. And when i look at, for example, my dad, who's 85, like, he can't engage with kids like that. And a big part of it is my dad's mentally as sharp as a tack. He can't get on the floor. So something is simple as can you get on the floor, spend 30 minutes without your back breaking and get up? Now, that takes a lot of intra abdominal stability. You really have to be able to initiate intera abdominal pressure to maintain that position. And of course, getting up requires a whole bunch co ordinated activities. I mean, i have a very lofty aspiration, which, if i get there, is great, whichs i wont be able to get up without using my hands still. Yet, i can do now, obviously, but even if i can just do it on one point of support, that would be fantastic. A, i love archery. It is such a big part of my life. And, you know, even though i'm pulling a 75 pound bow, i think to be able to pull a 50 pound bow in my marginal decade would be fantastic. A, i love driving race cars. Now, paul newman drove a race car until probably a year or two before the end of his life. And so for me, that's something that, you know, i would love to be able, be able to continue to do. And that requires not just the strength and the coordination and the mental acuity to do it, you have to be able to tolerate insanely hot temperatures. And get so hot inside of a race car that you have to kind of have the kind of cardy o vascular fitness to tolerate that, right? But having clarity about what those things are allows you to then backcast to wand start to build the foundation for that capability. Yet, like we were talking about earlier. I mean, that's a big part of why i do what you do, which is i do some of my activity, like i ruck four or five days a week, yuno carrying a weighted back pack. But i always do it like five or six p m, so in austin, that's about the hottest time of da. So it's a hundred degrees, sometimes it's a hundred nd 506 a. And you got a 60 pound pack on your back, and you go walk three miles in the hills. Your ability to tolerate heat, you know, you go to somebody's baran cue at 11 o'clock when it's 90 and everybody's dying, you're like, i's nothing right? Yes, you can a to that. You just have to engage with it and confront it, coming back for more. ([Time 0:39:04](https://share.snipd.com/snip/35e00b91-e85f-48b8-ae79-313cf80f5b6e))
	- LifeSpan and HealthSpan Are the Two Vectors of Longevity
	  
	  Summary:
	  Beth: Life span and health spanare the two vectors of longevity. She says if you take all the steps to live a better life, they're just in rably going to also lead to a longer life. Beth: I think we probably tell people that they don't need to do that much exercise,. cause we're talking to the average person who's doing none. But i would hate for the message to end there... If you could do ten hours a week structured, you could achieve what you could achieve," she said.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  And when i lie flat and i try to do pelvic mobility exercises, i so incredibly limited, like that pivot is just, i have no range whatever.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I mean, you'll get it, you know, once you learn to use the ham strings, once you learn how to activate those ham stringsand we started doing it single leg at a time. I mean, this is where beth's real brilliance shines, just being able to come up with these exercises like, you know, if you just put your foot on a one inch block and elevate the right foot more than the left, and take turns with the activation. I mean, all those things a start to make it easier for you toa, initially get that signal from your brain to those muscles. M, but i'm just, you know, look, i wish i learned this when i was 18, but i also realize i was too dumb when i was 18, and there's probably no way i would have done it. Yes, i mean, it's that kind of age old question.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  What would you tell your younger self? But that presupposes that you're young self would be at all open to, like, any of this type of avice. Wel, simply nower the ongember a. Well, beyond this kind of realm, when you think about longevity, and when we talk about longevity, we're really talking about hell span, like whate or the other buckets. An, and i guess a question that i have is, how does this a kind of line up with, you know, the ideas of the blue zones and these other kind of principles that guide, you know, how to think about, a, setting ourselves up for longevity success?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Well, you said, you know, life span is sort of a a, life span and health spanare the two vectors of longevity, but i do think most people think more about the health span one. A, an. The good news is they're not independent vectors, right? These ar, these are actually not orthogonal vectors there, even though we represent them orthognaly on a graph. A, if you take all the steps to live a better life, they're just in rably going to also lead to a longer life. Ah, now, there are exceptions to this rule. There are certain trade offs one might make if you were really purely optimizing on one or the other. But the, but the overlap is so powerful. So i usually tell people not to worry about it, you kno other words, if they say, i don't care how long i live. I just want to live the best life possible, it' like great, our goin to live longer, by the a, so, so i think of them, as i said, in those three buckets, sort of a cognitive bucket, a physical, structural bucket and an emotional bucket. And a, within that physical bucket, just a can a round it out, you have everything we've just spoken about, which is the stability component. And that's the foundation every hin has to be built upon that. And then there ar, sort of think of like three pillars that stand on the foundation strength, an arobic base, which is effectively a proxy for mitochondrial efficiency and, you know, exceptional fuel partitioning. And then a peak arobic, you know, slash an arobic piece, so kind of your vo two, max your zone too, and your strength. And, ah, again, i think people have a sort of intuitive sense of what those look like, but, you know, the devil is in the details, and you kow how much time should you be spending on one versus the other? Andit's really a cono function of how much time is one willing to devote to this right? A. I think, you know, i think we, for understandable reasons, probably tell people that they don't need to do that much exercise, cause we're talking to the average person who's doing none. And it's true that, if you're doing no exercise, just getting you to do three hours a week h unbelievable impact on your life, probably more than anything else you could tell that person to do. But i would hate for the message to end there, because i think if you're, if you could do ten hours a week, and it's really well structured, you could, you kow, disguise the limit for what you could achieve. ([Time 0:58:39](https://share.snipd.com/snip/083c43d4-d1d9-49b1-805e-ff98ea806b7f))
	- Metebolic Health in the Context of Technological Advancements
	  
	  Summary:
	  There's a lot of confusion out there about what's meaningful verses what is something we don't need to be concerned with. The best way that i can explain it is through fuel partitioning. And the zone too, is basically a test of your mitochondrial efficiency. We just know that as we get older, our mitocondria gets less and less effective.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Let's talk about metebolic health in the, you know, kind of context ofof technological advances and developments. Now, we have all these wearables. We have the ora ring, and i've got the whoop on, and i've been playing around with inside tracker, and i've got my levels past on and, and it's got me en other's pluses and minuses to all these things. Id mean, one thing that all these devices have been really good at is getting me very engaged with how my health is doing on a data day basis, which is great. But i do feel like a, i'm suffering from kind of this lay person's condition of not knowing what all this data means or what do with it. And i think there's a lot of confusion out there about what's meaningful verses what is something we we don't need to be concerned with. But i want a kind of structure this around the subject matter of metabolic hel so perhaps, like, define what it is in kind of the context of healthy metabolic function versus metabolic di function.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  You know, i think the easiest way to start is, is a very broad definition that would encompass something called metabolic cindrum. So in the gosh, 19 eighties, maybe even early nineties, a very, very famous and amazing ender chronologist at stanfordname jerry reven he would have been there when you were there. Jerry died py about four years ago. I was very lucky to meet him several times before he did. And the guy was insanely generous with his time. Like i'd literally just go to his office and hang out with him and ask questions. A he kind of identified something that at the time, he referred to as cindrum x, which he said, this thing tends to cluster around all diseases that are kind of metabolic in origin, kardiovasco disease, cancer, neuro degenertive s diobedes, fatty liver, although he didn't know about fatty liver at the time. All these things tend to cluster around this thing he called sindrum x. And without going through the details of how that migrated, what we now know is he was referring to insolent resistance and what we now call meta alexendrum. So mete alecindrum is defined in a very crude way, but everything that's done at the population level is incredibly crude. So it's basically defined by how big your waist is, how high your blood pressure is, how high your glucose is, how high your triglycerides are and how low your h d l cllestral is. And theres sort of a line drawn in the sand that says, if three, four or five of those metrics are beyond a threshold, you have met sin, you have met b alexandra, no of corse. It's a continuum. So i used to know the stats very well. What fraction of the population had five out of five, which would be, youknow, very bad, four out of five? And what frac of the population head like zero out of five? And so if you lined up everybody in the country across that spectrum, you're going from the most metabolically healthy to the least metabolically healthy. But i haven't really answered the question for you. I've just kind of labeled it. So what does it actually mean? And i think the best way that i can explain it is through fuel partitioning. So fuel partitioning is basically a fancy way of saying, how does your body know what to do? With the energy you put in it, where does it put it and how does it access it later? And someone like you, someone like me, like our bodies are pretty good at doing this. You know. We know, when you eat glucose, fat, protein, this part we should use, this part we should store. And when we go to exercise, we know how to access the right one. So this is where conozone too comes back into it. And the zone too, is basically a test of your mitochondrial efficiency. And this is, you know, one of the hall marks of aging, writeso, there are nine hall marks of aging, and one of them is mitochondrial disfunction. We just know that as we get older, our mitocondria get less and less effective. And what you really want are mitocondria that can access fat stores at basically higher and higher levels of work output. So an example of a metabolically healthy person to a metabolically unhealthy person is have them go for a walk. The metabolically healthy person is accessing exclusively fat stores to do that. The metabolically unhealthy person is burning through glucose and glicagen to make that happen. That's a fundamental distinction between them. Sure. And the trade off of that is, what's the natural history of that? This person is getting fatter, and this person is having a harder and harder time regulating their glucose levels, right? ([Time 1:22:44](https://share.snipd.com/snip/30e94c82-7eb3-44e1-9845-e660da296fc4))
	- What's the Difference Between V O Two Max and Z Two Max?
	  
	  Summary:
	  It's interesting that terminology like v o two max gets all the attention, and in reality it's so much less important than what your z two maximum is. At some point it starts to become a question of, like, how much fuel i make? Cause youre still the three eight hour difference. You're now starting to get into the limitations of actual fibre damage. Enowh for example, when people feel sore the day after a superintense workout where they had that lactate burn, i think they erroneously assume that it's the lactate that they're feeling,. but they'reactually not.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Yes, it's interesting that that terminology like v o two max, gets all the attention, and in reality, it's so much less important than what your z two maximum is. And a question that i don't know that hat i've ever heard a good answer for, that i'm curious about, is, is the difference between, like, let's say, let's say that the top end of your zone too is is like, i don't know, 250 wats on a bike. What is the difference between an athlete that can maintain that, 250 wats below two a for three hours, but then taps out, the athlete that can maintain that for eight hours?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  You know, at some point it starts to become a question of, like, how much fuel i make? Cause youre still the three eight hour difference. You're going to have to start injesting some fuel, so assume equality across fueling, then it probably starts to come down to muscle fibres and things like at, like, aatochondrial density. I don't know. I mean, i don't think i know the answer to that. I think what i would say is, a, you're going to, you know, because these are fit athletes, like, their muscles are actually putting out a lot of power. 250 wats is a lot of power. And so you're now starting to get into the limitations of actual fibre damage. Enowh for example, like when people feel sore the day after a superintense workout where they had that lactate burn, i think they erroneously assume that it's the lactate that they're feeling, but they'reactually not. They're feeling the microscopic damage to the muscle fibres. So i that that's probably going to be the differentiating factor there. So it's some amount of muscle protein synthesis and some amount of, you know, kind of strength that probably factors into it as ike, actual muscular strength. ([Time 1:56:50](https://share.snipd.com/snip/e4097928-81ba-4d82-98b1-bf09d9346974))