title:: Range: Why Generalists Triumph in a Specialized World (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Range: Why Generalists Triumph in a Specialized World"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/range/
document_note:: This document discusses the benefits of having a broad range of skills and experiences in order to succeed in an increasingly complex and fast-moving world. It explains that specializing too early can lead to a "man with a hammer" mentality, making it difficult to solve problems outside of one's expertise. It also emphasizes the importance of utilizing "lateral thinking with withered technology" and the need for "porous boundaries" in order to allow collaboration and communication between different skills and fields. The document ultimately suggests that focusing on slow, deep learning and gaining knowledge from practice instead of theory is more effective, and that having a "match quality" between one's talents and proclivities is key to success.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- **There has been increasing evidence that a broader range of experiences and sports which delays specializing in any one field or sport actually improves performance.** It takes time and delays initial success but developing a broader range of expertise makes you better off in the long run. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnt56q6020jbte2cpa29bef))
	- The most effective learning is in fact slow and seems inefficient but it helps you make connections and deeply ingrain the lessons. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnt5afs2jsxdrqsy2gg1r7k))
	- The danger with becoming too specialized is that you become a man with a hammer where everything looks like a nail. Rather, all you need to do is stand up and look at the field right next to you to find your solution ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnt5ctt4ryezmnwxay12gdw))
	- Kind vs. Unkind Environments
	  
	  1.  Early specialization is effective in what is called kind environments - those in which feedback loops are quick or instantaneous, the results are quite binary, and it is easy to pick up on patterns. Golf or chess are two examples of kind environments
	  2.  Unkind environments represent most of the world - the rules are unclear, feedback is slow or nonexistent, and it is hard to find the connections or patterns. In these domains, a broad range of experiences help with making connections and improving your pattern recognition ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnt9vgeb3c6brerc2p1hmks))
		- **Note**: In most parts of the world, a broad range of experiences is more beneficial than specializing in one area. This is especially true in "unkind" environments, where feedback is slow or nonexistent and it is hard to make connections or discern patterns. On the other hand, in "kind" environments such as golf or chess, where feedback is quick and results are binary, early specialization is more effective.
	- Transfer is a mode of broad thinking which allows you to take the skills and knowledge you already have and efficiently and effectively apply it to new scenarios. This type of skill and knowledge takes a long time to build but it compounds on itself as it allows you to progress in many more domains. Johannes Kepler was a master at this since there was no previous knowledge for him to build off of so he used analogies from far-flung domains in order to think through the forces acting on the planets and why they seem to move and act the way they do. He used the ideas of spirits, force, motion, magnetism, attraction, movement, light, smells, and more in order to finally arrive at his final conclusion. **This reasoning by analogy to make the new familiar or the familiar new by combining it and thinking about it in a new light. It allows us to think through things we’ve never experienced before or see things which are invisible. In today’s increasingly complex and fast-moving world, thinking by analogy is increasingly important as we are facing more novel situations than we ever have.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnt5knznwna83zg5b5sbvja))
		- **Note**: Johannes Kepler was a scientist who used his imagination to make something new. He used ideas from different areas, like force, motion, magnetism, and light, to figure out why planets moved the way they did. He combined these ideas in a new way to make the new familiar, or the familiar new. In today's world, it's important to be able to think in this way because we often face new situations.
	- Match quality - the match between what you do and your talents and proclivities. Switching is difficult and a short term sacrifice but over time it is the best route as you improve your match quality. Switchers are winners and too much grit is harmful in this way if you stay too long in an area which doesn’t suit you. **It is amazing how often people who excel don’t have long-term plans but instead take each opportunity to learn about themselves, grow, add value, and make the most of each opportunity as it comes.** They switch often and over time this increases their match quality and gets them in a position to learn a lot quickly and excel. **Rather than a grand plan find little experiments that you can test and iterate and learn from rapidly. This is how people learn from practice rather than theory and is far more effective than trying to think your way into who you think you are - do and then think. Don’t promise or plan anything for the future. instead, live in the moment and make the most of the opportunities given you** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnt6mmgq3rr6bndmnyk5j4g))
		- **Tags**: #[[experimentation]]
		- **Note**: Rather than making a big plan for the future, it's better to try different things and see what works. People who are successful often switch between different activities and this helps them discover what they like and are good at. This is the best way to learn and grow quickly. Instead of trying to figure out who you are by thinking, it's better to try things and learn from your experiences. This is the best way to get to know yourself and make the most of every opportunity.
	- **The most effective leaders and thinkers are paradoxical. They acknowledge the complexity of the situation and how little they know simply doing the best that they can as new information becomes available and dropping tools that are no longer helpful rather than sticking to something simply because they are comfortable or familiar with it**. "The old man knows the rules the wise man knows the exceptions," and you have to know when you’re dealing with an exception ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnt81n0t149bp130b4m14zw))
		- **Tags**: #[[leadership]]
		- **Note**: The most successful leaders and thinkers are those that recognize the complexity of their situations and are willing to adjust their approach as needed, rather than sticking to familiar methods. They understand that there are exceptions to the rules, and must be able to identify and act on them.
	- **The best teams have porous boundaries so that people with different skills can easily communicate, learn from one another, and break their own ideas.** Make sure to schedule in free time in order to let people's imaginations run free. Give them time to pursue their own interests, even if the immediate benefit isn’t clear ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnt98bkxm8qt9tf2dn0vrh0))
		- **Note**: This document encourages teams to have porous boundaries to allow for communication and learning between members with different skillsets. It also suggests that free time should be scheduled to allow people to explore their own interests and pursue their imagination without the pressure of immediate results.