title:: Rationalism vs. Empiricism (highlights)
author:: [[Stanford Report]]
full-title:: "Rationalism vs. Empiricism"
category:: #articles
url:: https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/rationalism-empiricism/
document_note:: Rationalism and empiricism are two philosophical theories that dispute the extent to which we depend on experience to gain knowledge of the external world. Rationalists argue that some knowledge is gained independently of sense experience, such as by intuition and deduction. They also maintain that this knowledge is superior to any gained through experience. Empiricists, on the other hand, contend that all ideas originate from sense experience and that reflective understanding can provide missing links. Rationalists believe in the existence of innate knowledge, which is not learned through experience or intuition/deduction, and of innate concepts, which are not gained from experience. However, empiricists claim that experience provides all our ideas and determines the content of our descriptions and knowledge of the world.
tags:: #[[empiricism]] #[[rationalism]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Mar 6th, 2023]]
	- The second thesis that is relevant to the distinction between rationalism and empiricism is *the Innate Knowledge thesis*.
	  
	  > *The Innate Knowledge Thesis*: We have knowledge of some truths in a particular subject area, S, as part of our nature.
	  
	  The Innate Knowledge thesis asserts the existence of knowledge whose source is our own nature: we are born with this knowledge; it doesn’t depend, for its justification, on our accessing it via particular experiences. Our innate knowledge is not learned through either experience or intuition/deduction. It is just part of our nature. Experiences may trigger a process by which we bring this knowledge to consciousness, but these experiences do not provide us with the knowledge itself. It has in some way been with us all along. According to some rationalists, we gained the knowledge in an earlier existence. According to others, God provided us with it at creation. Still others say it is part of our nature through natural selection.
	  
	  We get different versions of the Innate Knowledge thesis by substituting different subject areas for the variable ‘S’. The more subjects included within the range of the thesis or the more controversial the claim to have knowledge in them, the more radical the form of rationalism. Stronger and weaker understandings of warrant yield stronger and weaker versions of the thesis as well. Empiricists reject this thesis: Locke, for instance, dedicates the whole first book of the *Essay* to show that such knowlege, even if it existed, would be of little use to us. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtd30fx5zyh5qm40cmtg7men))
		- **Note**: The Innate Knowledge thesis is important in the debate between rationalism and empiricism. It states that we are born with knowledge about certain topics and that this knowledge does not come from experiences or intuitions. Some people think that we got this knowledge from an earlier life or from God, while others believe that we got it through natural selection. However, empiricists disagree and think that even if this knowledge exists, it is not useful to us.
	- The main characteristic of empiricism, however, is that it endorses a version of the following claim for some subject area:
	  
	  > *The Empiricism Thesis*: We have no source of knowledge in S or for the concepts we use in S other than experience.
	  
	  To be clear, the Empiricism thesis does not entail that we have empirical knowledge. It entails that knowledge can only be gained, *if at all*, by experience. Empiricists may assert, as some do for some subjects, that the rationalists are correct to claim that experience cannot give us knowledge. The conclusion they draw from this rationalist lesson is that we do not know at all. This is, indeed, Hume's position with regard to causation, which, he argues, is not actually known, but only presupposed to be holding true, in virtue of a particular habit of our minds.
	  
	  We have stated the basic claims of rationalism and empiricism so that each is relative to a particular subject area. Rationalism and empiricism, so relativized, need not conflict. We can be rationalists in mathematics or a particular area of mathematics and empiricists in all or some of the physical sciences. Rationalism and empiricism only conflict when formulated to cover the same subject. Then the debate, Rationalism vs. Empiricism, is joined. The fact that philosophers can be both rationalists and empiricists has implications for the classification schemes often employed in the history of philosophy, especially the one traditionally used to describe the Early Modern Period of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries leading up to Kant. It is standard practice to group the philosophers of this period as either rationalists or empiricists and to suggest that those under one heading share a common agenda in opposition to those under the other. Thus, Descartes, Spinoza and Leibniz are the Continental Rationalists in opposition to Locke, Hume, and Reid, the British Empiricists. Such general classification schemes should only be adopted with great caution. The views of the individual philosophers are a lot more subtle and complex than the simple-minded classification suggests. (See Loeb (1981) and Kenny (1986) for important discussions of this point.) Locke rejects rationalism in the form of any version of the Innate Knowledge or Innate Concept theses, but he nonetheless adopts the Intuition/Deduction thesis with regard to our knowledge of God’s existence, in addition to our knowledge of mathematics and morality. Descartes and Locke have remarkably similar views on the nature of our ideas, even though Descartes takes many to be innate, while Locke ties them all to experience. The rationalist/empiricist classification also encourages us to expect the philosophers on each side of the divide to have common research programs in areas beyond epistemology. Thus, Descartes, Spinoza and Leibniz are mistakenly seen as applying a reason-centered epistemology to a common metaphysical agenda, with each trying to improve on the efforts of the one before, while Locke, Hume, and Reid are mistakenly seen as gradually rejecting those metaphysical claims, with each consciously trying to improve on the efforts of his predecessors. It is also important to note that the rationalist/empiricist distinction is not exhaustive of the possible sources of knowledge. One might claim, for example, that we can gain knowledge in a particular area by a form of Divine revelation or insight that is a product of neither reason nor sense experience. In short, when used carelessly, the labels ‘rationalist’ and ‘empiricist,’ as well as the slogan that is the title of this essay, ‘Rationalism vs. Empiricism,’ can impede rather than advance our understanding. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtd32mdhvfxadrr89323436n))
		- **Note**: The dispute between rationalism and empiricism is about the extent to which our knowledge of the external world depends on experience. Rationalists argue that some of our concepts and knowledge are gained independently of sense experience, through intuition and deduction. They also contend that knowledge gained in this way is superior to knowledge gained through experience, and that some knowledge is innate. Empiricists argue that all concepts and knowledge can be explained as derived from experience, and that our experiences determine the content of our ideas. Both sides of the argument are relevant to understanding the history of philosophy.