title:: René Girard (highlights)
author:: [[utm.edu]]
full-title:: "René Girard"
category:: #articles
url:: https://iep.utm.edu/girard/

tags:: #[[girard]] #[[Girard]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 11th, 2023]]
	- Girard’s fundamental concept is ‘mimetic desire’. Ever since Plato, students of human nature have highlighted the great mimetic capacity of human beings; that is, we are the species most apt at imitation. Indeed, imitation is the basic mechanism of learning (we learn inasmuch as we imitate what our teachers do), and neuroscientists are increasingly reporting that our neural structure promotes imitation very proficiently (for example, ‘mirror neurons’). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzx90s4q2nynrz97xq4axfw))
	- Girard calls ‘mediation’ the process in which a person influences the desires and preferences of another person. Thus, whenever a person’s desire is imitated by someone else, she becomes a ‘mediator’ or ‘model’ ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzx8dn5zd16q9q7znpq118s))
	- In ‘internal mediation’, the ‘mediator’ and the person mediated are no longer abysmally separated and hence, do not belong to different worlds. In fact, they come to resemble each other to the point that they end up desiring the same things. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzx9w0jfspzmdqfc6ac61q4))
	- Girard calls the desire to *be* other people, ‘metaphysical desire’. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzxa9twmx7ahvg4d536t936))
	- According to Girard, metaphysical desire can be a very destructive force, as it promotes resentment against others. Girard considers that the anti-hero of Dostoyevsky’s *Notes From the Underground* is the quintessential victim of metaphysical desire: the unnamed character eventually goes on a crusade against the world, as he is disillusioned with everything around him. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzxastz0g0fhjbh840n1t02))
		- **Tags**: #[[dostoevsky]]
	- Girard grants that Freud was a superb observer, but was not a good interpreter. And, in a sense, Girard accepts that there is such a thing as the Oedipus Complex: the child will eventually come to unconsciously have a sexual desire for his mother, and a desire to kill his father; and indeed, perhaps this complex will endure throughout adulthood. But, Girard considers that the Oedipus Complex is the result of a mechanism very different from the one outlined by Freud.
	  
	  According to Freud, the child has an innate sexual desire towards the mother, and eventually, discovers that the father is an obstacle to the satisfaction of that desire. Girard, on the other hand, reinterprets the Oedipus Complex in terms of mimetic desire: the child becomes identified with his father and imitates him. But, inasmuch as he imitates his father, the child imitates the sexual desire for his mother. Then, his father becomes his model and rival, and that explains the ambivalent feelings so characteristic of the Oedipus Complex. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzxc37zentywn8hyy2a0zm6))
	- Girard calls this process ‘scapegoating’, an allusion to the ancient religious ritual where communal sins were metaphorically imposed upon a he-goat, and this beast was eventually abandoned in the desert, or sacrificed to the gods (in the Hebrew Bible, this is especially prescribed in *Leviticus* 16).The person that receives the communal violence is a ‘scapegoat’ in this sense: her death or expulsion is useful as a regeneration of communal peace and restoration of relationships. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzxd7vxs319p71f52ftms6q))
	- Girard believes that this process goes farther back in the evolution of *Homo sapiens*: hominids probably were engaged in scapegoating. But, it was precisely scapegoating what allowed a minimum of communal peace among early hominid groups. Hominids could eventually develop their main cultural traits due to the efficiency of the scapegoat mechanism. The murder of a victim brought forth communal peace, and this peace promoted the flourishing of the most basic cultural institutions. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzxey0v8at80papjdzjvqqa))
	- Girard highlights that, in most primitive societies, there is a deep ambivalence towards deities: they hold high virtues, but they are also capable of performing some very monstrous deeds. That is how, according to Girard, primitive gods are sanctified victims. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzxgkyn5rx6k4g1zbtc8kgb))
	- In Girard’s view, ritual is a reenactment of the original scapegoating murder. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzxjpee7k8kqsyrzm8pa42t))
	- Girard’s crucial point about the necessary unconsciousness of scapegoating: must be kept in mind in order for this mechanism to work, its participants must not recognize it as such. That is to say, the victim must never appear as what it really is: a scapegoat that is no guiltier of disturbance, than other members of the community. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzxk80hmmrjhx0jpaw0q523))
	- Girard’s most recurrent example of myths is that of Oedipus. According to the myth, Oedipus was expelled from Thebes because he murdered his father and married his mother. But, according to Girard, the myth should be read as a chronicle written by a community that chose a scapegoat, blamed him of some crime, punished him, and once expelled, peace returned. Under Girard’s interpretation, the fact that there was a pest in Thebes is suggestive of a social crisis. To solve the crisis, Oedipus is selected as a scapegoat. But, he is never presented as such: quite the contrary, he is accused of parricide and incest, and this justifies his persecution. Thus, Oedipus’ perspective as a victim is suppressed from the myth. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzxmfeb60th6ke3j47efert))
	- Myths are typical of archaic societies, but Girard thinks that modern societies have the equivalent of myths: persecution texts. Especially during the witch-hunts and persecution of Jews during the Middle Ages, there were plenty of chronicles written from the perspective of the mobs and witch-hunters ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grzxn51zwk5rmeevr2nv7c93))