title:: River Out of Eden: A Darwinian View of Life (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "River Out of Eden: A Darwinian View of Life"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/river-out-of-eden/
document_note:: This text is about Richard Dawkins' view of life through the lens of Darwinian Theory. He argues that although life is complex, Darwinian Theory is powerful in explaining it. He also discusses the concept of a "river of DNA" as a metaphor for how genes are passed on from one generation to the next and why cooperation is the highest form of competition. Dawkins explores the idea of a "replication bomb" and how human culture has fostered a new kind of self-replicating entity, the "meme". He emphasizes the importance of understanding DNA as digital information and how it can be copied with remarkable accuracy and fidelity.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 19th, 2023]]
	- The river = a river of information through time, DNA ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfhqgkhabsmbsqzdavkc1n))
	- It is obvious but not a single of our ancestors died in infancy as they were able to pass along genes that helped them survive. We all inherit all our genes from an unbroken line of successful ancestors. The world becomes full of organism that have what it takes to become ancestors ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfj0r2nt92e09v9c1ekyxg))
		- **Note**: This text explores the idea that, due to the fact that all of our ancestors were able to survive, we all inherit our genes from an unbroken line of successful ancestors. This has resulted in the world becoming full of organisms that possess the traits to become ancestors.
	- To be good at surviving, a gene must be good at working together with the other genes in the same species - the same river. To survive in the long run, a gene must be a good companion. It must do well in the company of, or against the background of, the other genes in the same river. Genes of another species are in a different river. They do not have to get on well together - not in the same sense, anyway - for they do not have to share the same bodies
	  
	  1.  A biological reasoning and example as to why cooperation is the highest form of competition ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfjfk98vrycy67kbp31x7w))
		- **Note**: A gene is like a person who needs to get along with others. For a gene to survive and stay strong, it needs to work together with the other genes in its group. All the genes in the same group are like a river, and the genes from different groups are like different rivers. Genes from different rivers don't need to get along with each other. They don't have to share the same body, like people from different rivers don't have to share the same house. This is an example of why cooperation is important for survival.
	- •   Bauplan = blueprint, or a fundamental body plan (Dawkins argues against this as it can lead to errors in thinking as changes in species are subtle)
	  •   1.  Pulse Code Modulation - The transmission of genes is well-nigh perfect even if the transmission along the line is poor. The discrete levels are set far enough apart so that random fluctuations can never be misinterpreted by the receiving instrument as the wrong level. This is the great virtue of digital codes, and it is why audio and video systems - and information technology generally - are increasingly going digital...After Watson and Crick, we know that genes themselves, within their minute internal structure, are long strings of pure digital information. What is more, they are truly digital, in the full and strong sense of computers and compact disks, not in the weak sense of the nervous system. The genetic code is not a binary code as in computers, nor an eight-level code as in some phone systems, but a quaternary code, with four symbols. The machine code of the genes is uncannily computer like...Up until 1953 it was still possible to believe that there was something fundamentally and irreducibly mysterious in living protoplasm. No longer
	    2.  Genes are pure information - information that can be encoded, recoded and decoded, without any degradation or change of meaning. Pure information can be copied and, since it is digital information, the fidelity of the copying can be immense. DNA characters are copied with an accuracy that rivals anything modern engineers can do. They are copied down generations, with just enough occasional errors to introduce variety. Among this variety, those coded combinations that become more numerous in the world will obviously and automatically be the ones that, when decoded and obeyed inside bodies, make those bodies take active steps to preserve and propagate those same DNA messages. We - and that means all living things - are survival machines programmed to propagate the digital database that did the programming. Darwinism is now seen to be the survival of the survivors at the level of pure, digital code.
	    3.  DNA, seen in this light, becomes tempting to liken to a family Bible ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfma1vexfjvthfv2pwnw8a))
		- **Note**: In River Out of Eden, Dawkins argues against the concept of the "Bauplan" as it does not account for the subtle changes in species. He explains that the transmission of genes is perfect thanks to pulse code modulation. Genes are pure digital information and can be copied, recoded and decoded with immense fidelity. Darwinism is seen as the survival of the survivors at the level of pure digital code and DNA is compared to a family Bible.
	- Mitochondria ideal for dating common ancestry within a species because, besides mutations, they’re identical and come from one common mother ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfn3eq0z07b54m729f2qe8))
	- Nature is not cruel, only pitilessly indifferent. We humans have purpose on the brain. We find it hard to look at anything without wondering what it is "for, what the motive for it is, or the purpose behind it. When the obsession with purpose becomes pathological it is called paranoia - reading malevolent purpose into what is actually random bad luck. But this is just an exaggerated form of a nearly universal delusion. Show us almost any object or process, and it is hard for us to resist the "why" question - the "what is it for?" question. Beware this "purpose fallacy" - the "as if designed" assumption. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskfna3nrhypdbvs7qqdewxq))
		- **Note**: Nature is indifferent: 🌱
		  not cruel, only pitiless 💔
		  beware the purpose fallacy 🤔