title:: Ryan Holiday on Discipline Is Destiny (highlights)
author:: [[EconTalk]]
full-title:: "Ryan Holiday on Discipline Is Destiny"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/143e660a-79d2-4f41-a59f-f51f15052359

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- How to Achieve Self-Discipline
	  
	  Summary:
	  A disciplined friend can inspire you and maybe do more for you than my games that you might play with yourself. I'm going to talk to Archie Moore. This is not the most obscure person in the book, but it's one of the more obscure people. When somebody who has been beaten has sort of love or compassion for the person who beat them that's beautiful. And so when you watch someone who could have been resentful could have been angry could have been rooting for the failure of the person who had caused failure in their own life. That's such a beautiful expression of human greatness.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  And I think we've had guests on the program, Katie Miltman talking about how to change how to acquire habits. I think most of us are really bad at it. And if anything, and I'm not convinced that that many of those techniques work. I'm more prone to adopt your insight that a mentor, a disciplined mentor or disciplined friend. As long as you can not go crazy because they're so good at it and you're a slugger. A disciplined friend can inspire you and maybe do more for you than my games that you might play with yourself and so on. I'm going to talk to Archie Moore. This is not the most obscure person in the book, but it's one of the more obscure people. I am roughly twice your age. And I know who Archie Moore is. And I know who Floyd Patterson is. Most people listening, well, I have no idea who are talking about. They're two boxers from probably the mid 50s late 50s or then early 60s for Floyd Patterson. But you have a letter, you quote a letter that Archie Moore wrote to Floyd Patterson that is extraordinary. Really almost unparalleled that I can think of in the context of how that letter came to be written. And I'd like you to explain what that letter was about. And I'm curious why you came across that. And you put that in your book because it's pretty obscure.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Well, I was I was reading a lot about Muhammad Ali who I thought might be a character in the book and ended up reading about Floyd Patterson and walked away being much more a fan of Floyd Patterson than Muhammad Ali. And so I read Floyd Patterson's memoir from the 50s it's called victory over myself, which when you're writing a book about self discipline. And you see that title you're like, Oh, wow. So I got very excited. But but Patterson talks about when he loses the heavyweight title. He's, he loses it. And for basically all of boxing history up until that point, actually for all of boxing history. And then there's only been maybe three exceptions since when the heavyweight champion would lose the belt. And that was it. They never regained it. And so he has this sort of humiliating defeat. He was a little over confident he wasn't ready he loses it. And he basically throws himself a pity party. He, he can't get out of bed he can't look as children in the eye. And that's this surprise letter from Archie Moore, who he himself had beaten quite dramatically not long before. And Archie Moore basically says, stop feeling sorry for yourself. You're great. And I think that you can be the first one in history to come back from this and win. And it's a remarkable letter I think and, and again I was going to write about this more in the discipline book I'm, I'm going to talk about it more. I'm going to talk about it more in the justice book, but I, I love one when somebody does something for someone that, you know, they, they'd own nothing to I think that's such a beautiful expression of human greatness. But, but when somebody who has been beaten has sort of love or compassion for the person who beat them that's beautiful, just as when someone has beaten someone else what kind of mercy and compassion and love do they have for that person when there's when there's the power dynamic. And one still does the human decent kind generous thing. And so when you watch someone who could have been resentful could have been angry could have been rooting for the failure of the person who had caused failure in their own life. To write this letter I mean it's just, it's a remarkable act of both justice and generosity, but also self control because he would have had all sorts of competitive feelings for this person and here he is putting those aside and writing instead a note of great grace and encouragement. ([Time 0:49:04](https://share.snipd.com/snip/9dbe89ea-cab6-4ac9-be5a-d9219e1a0087))