title:: Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/sapiens/
document_note:: This book argues that Homo sapiens is the dominant species on Earth because it is the only animal able to cooperate flexibly in large numbers. This is attributed to its unique ability to believe in things existing purely in its own imagination, such as gods, nations, money, and human rights. All large scale human cooperation systems, including religions, political structures, trade networks and legal institutions, are based on fiction. This cognitive revolution, which may have been sparked by a genetic mutation, allowed for the development of language and the expansion of sapiens across the world. This lead to the development of individual homes, cities, empires, codes of law and much more. The author argues that there is no "natural" way for humans to live, only cultural differences which influence what we believe and how we act. They suggest that the spread of sapiens killed off animal species, and that the agricultural revolution was not necessarily a step up in terms of quality of life. Finally, the book looks to the future, with the author arguing that intelligent design and technological breakthroughs may lead to a new revolution in evolutionary history.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 18th, 2023]]
	- The agricultural revolution in fact did not come about because people were slowly getting smarter and this lifestyle was often more brutal and dangerous than the foraging lifestyle. Yuval argues that it was in fact the plant species that domesticated us and not the other way around (a la Michael Pollan). The demanding work to take care of wheat often lead to many physical ailments that the human body wasn't used to or designed for ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gshzcc9dc3wq529zgt54h5ph))
	- **Hierarchies are always rationalized through myths, human imagination as hierarchies are universal, it is believed they are necessary to organize complex societies.** The lower castes were always portrayed as somehow being inherently "pollutive" ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gshzcwejpd76swektzqm5ptf))