title:: Sara Walker on the Physics of Life and Planet-Scale Intelligence (highlights)
author:: [[COMPLEXITY]]
full-title:: "Sara Walker on the Physics of Life and Planet-Scale Intelligence"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/e7214fe5-3b9f-4c71-abc0-dadeb67b7caa

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- How to Measure the Shortest Path in a Molecule?
	  
	  Summary:
	  assembly index is something we can measure. It has a real physical meaning with respect to that object, in terms of the minimal time that the universe needs to produce that ject and um. And it allows us to basically, like i said, coarse grain reality, assembled reality in this really interesting way. We don't have to know about all the paths or some statistical distribution of paths. We only have t know about the shortest path. That's very significant for molecules, because you can measure the shortest path and an exact observable of molecules. So we want to use assembly theory as a bio signature.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  We don't have to know about all the paths or some statistical distribution of paths. We only have t know about the shortest path. And that's very significant for molecules, because you can measure the shortest path and an exact observable of molecules. So it's like electrons might have tons of properties, but you build a lot of theories about ele ons based on their mass, their electric charge and their spin, right? Because those are the physically relevant variables that we found are good compressions for measuring experiments and building theories that are predictive. In assembly theory, the assembly index is something we can measure. It has a real physical meaning with respect to that object, in terms of the minimal time that the universe needs to produce that ject and um. And it allows us to basically, like i said, coarse grain reality, assembled reality in this really interesting way. Now, if you were doing the average path, you'd get some kind of, like, other weird it just like, it's just not conceptunally clean. Now, the thing is, as you said, when an object comes to exist in the universe. It's almost never by the shortest path. And in fact, it migt not even be an assembly path at all that you actually observe it, because assembly paths are like at very low levels of reality. So just to give an example, an assembly theory for molecules, we use bonds, and we join bonds together to make steps in the assembly pathway. A lot of things we produce are things that are never observed. Their fragments ofd molecules are not whole molecules. Assembly steps don't correspond to reactions. And the conjecture there is what a reaction is is just a very high level, coarse graining of an assembly space. And this idea actually comes from lee. He's got this idea of the origin of chemical reactions. Like you take two assembly ecules, they have a very large assembly space, and you interact them. What defines what features the assembly space get retained? Ind what you produce? What defines that is the constructor for that transformation, or the other physical object that set the boundary conditions for that interaction. So in chemistry, that could be a chemical catalist. It could be a round bottomed flask. For you and i, it could be you know, sir, the context of the features of this room is no defining a part in our history. So usual design, yes, exactly, yes. So this becomes important because the things that we observe as the actual trajectories that produce things are not always directly related to the features assembly space that underlies the theory. That would be some coarse grained representation of the theory. And, ah, and also, because of this co assembly, like, you know, most of the time we discover things, it's like these pieces were put together. They're not necessariy at all the shortest path. And that's ok, because the university s generating structures, and it doesn't know how to build them when they're first generated. Has the l rn how to build them. And that learning process might make the pat shorter over time. Maybe that's the signature of intelligence. Ray. But it doesn't need to be the case that the actual ways we build things, what we observe in terms of, like, statistical ensamble of assembled objects, those could be different features of the assembly space. As far as the mechanism of formation, then what we need to measure is an intrinsic property of the object, independent of where you find it in the universe. This is super important for the alien detet life detection, issue, right? So we want to use assembly theory as a bio signature. Now, if we were using average path or constraints based on the environment, then we would have an observable that changed with planetary environment. And if you want to go from measuring signatures of life on earth, say, molecules that are assembled more than 15 steps, and now we want to go to incelidus with a mass pack, we need something that's an objective property o the molecule, independent of what environment its in. So it has to have this intrinsic property. But all these extrinsic features are also important for thinking about the dynamics in assembly spaces. But we er talkn about the fundamental objects of the theory. ([Time 0:38:30](https://share.snipd.com/snip/70dbeb74-ff66-4214-bdd0-75300872daee))