title:: Scaling Biotech // Jesse Johnson // MLOps Coffee Sessions #74 (highlights)
author:: [[MLOps.community]]
full-title:: "Scaling Biotech // Jesse Johnson // MLOps Coffee Sessions \#74"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/ef6a4315-3a58-4af6-b93a-d1ab2b258817

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- The Meta Data Is The Key Part, Right?
	  
	  Summary:
	  The problem of how to structure real world context into interpretable data fields is a big one for the health care industry, says Dr. John Rizzo. He and his colleagues are trying to solve that challenge by creating cross functional teams where they can work together on solving problems. But it's not as simple as just getting three diferent scientists who agree on what the column headers should be, he adds.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Maybe, maybe it's like, on prem and not in an s three bucket, lik? We, we can fix that, um, but you've right, you've got am, yes. So, so the meta data is the key part, right? And i think, again, this is where you get into thes sort of these shared mental models, right? Whereas the biologist says, well, like, why do i need to be, why do i need to use the same excel form at as one else? Like, i'm not goingto look at their data, then i can look at mine. And even if we do, we can tell, like, i know that, you know, tat, like, just because the sea is, you know, capital instead of lower case, it's the same thing. Whereas the data scientist comes and says, ogae's going to take me hours to fix this. Like, clearly, that's a problem. That's a big problem, right? So, so yove a very, you know, there's he kind of that disconnect there. A. But then also, the data scientist may be saying, well, but we've got the data, like maybe the excel sheets don't even matter. And then, of course, once you dive in, you realize that they do. So so i think the so for me, like the the data is is, it's not a solved problem, but it's kind of, it's ther theire solutions they are, right? We've, we've gone through the whole big data kind of era their ways, like, it doesn't matter if it's gagabites or terabites of data that's coming off of the instruments, that's fine. The much harder part is the meta data. And that's, that's organizational and operational kind of problem. You know, justget three diferent scientists who agree on what the column headers should be.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  You know, i dare you, i totally see what you're saying, and it's fascinating to hear you put it in the context of an actual lab process, which is not something that, you know, we know as much about. But the general problem you're describing of underanding how to structure real world context into interpretable data fields. I feel that is something that i can really relate in my sort of more traditional health care experience, where in our case we have a sort of conflict, in my setting, between how clinitions might structure data aboutaa patient, whereas insurance might structure the same information in a very different way in getting those fields to a line. Well, you know, good luck. I'm curious, in your environment now, at you point where you are having the opportunity perhaps to build some of this from the ground up, how are you trying to solve that challenge? Is it through more conversation? Are you trying to use tooling a there other experiences that, or other companies whose lessons have inspired you? I'm curious how you tryin to solve it.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yes, so i think so. On the technical side, think it's, it's once, once you kind of understand what the solution is, you know that that that's fairly straightforward. So, of course, you know, we try to hire great data scientists, data engineers. But really, i think were where where it requires more kind of thoughtfulness, ore more, if wheres litle more challenging, is on the on the organizational side. Again, a so so this, this is where this notion of shared mental models comes in. Because if you can iguess my, my hypothesis is that once you kind of recognize that this, this is something to be solved for, and that this is where some of these challenges come from, it kind of changes the, it gives you a lens to view these issues through, right? And now consertive start asking, ok, like, is this breakdown in communication? Is it because yoow, a clash of mental models, or iit? Is it something more, um, practical? Though often, you know, it's kind of little bit of both, um. And so so, like, one thing that we've done for uni, for collecting better meta data is, am is creating, kind of, deliberately, explicitly creating cross functional teams where you sort of say a, you know, the ten of us are now, like, we're all going to talk about how we solve this problem of, you know, whatsho the spread sheets look like. And often that maythat may not be mean we're all reviewing spread sheets together, but it may be that the ten of us agree that these two or three people are going come up with a proposal, and that we'reall going to review it. But because what happens a so, like, especially with the meta data. Next i wrote on soin my news letter, not my blog, which is also scaling biotex substact dot com. A was a, but basically what happens is that everyone in the lab rite, even if they recognize that it's a problem, that these excel files are kind of inconsistent, they don't feel like they, as an individual, can canke tell everyone else what to do, right? And the data scientists, you know, they're, they're getting, you know, these these mismatched column names and all that, and they don't feel like they can tell the biologists what to do, right? And so usually they, they just kind of grumble about it, fix the data and move on, right? And then the bioloiscists keep continuied using their, you know, whatever convensions they want. And so sometimes you have to kind of deliberately tell people, ok, we all recognize s a problem. No one of us feels like we can solve it. So you, you know, you point to one person, you say, you're now going to solve this. And now, of course, as like a v p, it's much easier for me to do that, i think, you know, if you're, if you're coming in, if you're kind of trying to to lead upwards, you know, or manage upwards, right? Like, you're gong to have to do this differently. But i think still like getting people into the room and saying, every like, we now have everyone who, you know, every stake holder is now in this room. Let's agree, you know, one person is going to give us a solution, anwe so that that's, that's one thing, a, where, again, a, you know, i think sort of it helps, it helps, aligning the mental models by kind of talking about, like, what the problem is, and what's our approach to the solution, getting everyone onbored with what's, what's the what's the process we're going to follow? ([Time 0:39:14](https://share.snipd.com/snip/379cecf3-40de-483c-8a96-e1f3279bb7e5))