title:: Six Easy Pieces: Essentials of Physics Explained by Its Most Brilliant Teacher (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Six Easy Pieces: Essentials of Physics Explained by Its Most Brilliant Teacher"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/six-easy-pieces/
document_note:: In this text, Richard Feynman covers some of the basics of physics and its relation to other sciences. He explains the importance of experiments and the use of mathematics to understand natural phenomena, as well as the concept of symmetry and conservation laws in physics. He also touches upon the idea of atomic hypothesis and statistical mechanics, and concludes with the concept of energy conservation. Feynman emphasizes the importance of understanding the fundamental laws of physics and the process of amalgamation between different sciences.
tags:: #[[physics]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- You might ask why we cannot teach physics by just giving the basic laws on page one and then showing how they work in all possible circumstances, as we do in Euclidean geometry, where we state the axioms and then make all sorts of deductions. (So, not satisfied to learn physics in four years, you want to learn it in four minutes?) We cannot do it in this way for two reasons. First, we do not yet know all the basic laws: there is an expanding frontier of ignorance. Second, the correct statement of the laws of physics involves some very unfamiliar ideas which require advanced mathematics for their description. Therefore, one needs a considerable amount of preparatory training even to learn what the words mean. No, it is not possible to do it that way. We can only do it piece by piece. **Each piece, or part, of the whole of nature is always merely an approximation to the complete truth, or the complete truth so far as we know it. In fact, everything we know is only some kind of approximation, because we know that we do not know all the laws as yet. Therefore, things must be learned only to be unlearned again or, more likely, to be corrected. The principle of science, the definition, almost, is the following: The test of all knowledge is experiment.** Experiment is the sole judge of scientific “truth.” But what is the source of knowledge? Where do the laws that are to be tested come from? Experiment, itself, helps to produce these laws, in the sense that it gives us hints. But also needed is imagination to create from these hints the great generalizations—to guess at the wonderful, simple, but very strange patterns beneath them all, and then to experiment to check again whether we have made the right guess. This imagining process is so difficult that there is a division of labor in physics: there are theoretical physicists who imagine, deduce, and guess at new laws, but do not experiment; and then there are experimental physicists who experiment, imagine, deduce, and guess. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5sesn90phv2whm27ep0mh))
		- **Note**: We can't learn physics just by reading it on one page. That's because we don't know all the laws of physics yet, and the laws that we do know are written in a way that is hard to understand. So, we have to learn physics piece by piece. We can only learn what is true by testing it with experiments. Scientists have to use their imagination to figure out the patterns in nature that explain what we observe in experiments. There are two types of scientists – theoretical physicists who figure out the patterns without doing experiments and experimental physicists who do experiments and figure out the patterns.
	- If, in some cataclysm, all of scientific knowledge were to be destroyed, and only one sentence passed on to the next generations of creatures, what statement would contain the most information in the fewest words? I believe it is the atomic hypothesis (or the atomic fact, or whatever you wish to call it) that all things are made of atoms—little particles that move around in perpetual motion, attracting each other when they are a little distance apart, but repelling upon being squeezed into one another. In that one sentence, you will see, there is an enormous amount of information about the world, if just a little imagination and thinking are applied. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5tm09836pate0wmqx4g85))
		- **Note**: This sentence is saying that if all the scientific knowledge in the world was destroyed and we only had one sentence to share with future generations, the most important sentence would be that everything is made out of tiny particles called atoms. These atoms are always moving and they stick together when they are far apart, but push away when they are close together. This one sentence has a lot of information about the world in it if you use your imagination and think about it!
	- What do we mean by “understanding” something? We can imagine that this complicated array of moving things which constitutes “the world” is something like a great chess game being played by the gods, and we are observers of the game. We do not know what the rules of the game are; all we are allowed to do is to watch the playing. Of course, if we watch long enough, we may eventually catch on to a few of the rules. The rules of the game are what we mean by fundamental physics...If we know the rules, we consider that we “understand” the world. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5vxeas6rskwvxejs82qgc))
		- **Note**: We can think of the world as a giant game of chess. The gods are playing the game, and we are just watching. We can't figure out the rules of the game until we've watched for a long time. These rules are called "fundamental physics" and if we know them, we understand the world.
	- Proteins have a very interesting and simple structure. They are a series, or chain, of different amino acids. There are twenty different amino acids, and they all can combine with each other to form chains in which the backbone is CO-NH, etc. Proteins are nothing but chains of various ones of these twenty amino acids. Each of the amino acids probably serves some special purpose. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5wydc1bf3j29bqfqdq6wm))
		- **Tags**: #[[protein]]
		- **Note**: This text explains that proteins are made up of a chain of different amino acids, of which there are twenty. The backbone of these proteins is CO-NH, etc. Each amino acid has a special purpose in the protein chain.
	- The general name of energy which has to do with location relative to something else is called potential energy. In this particular case, of course, we call it gravitational potential energy. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5y3mchs4t8263yjrded8m))
	- Elastic energy is the formula for a spring when it is stretched. How much energy is it? If we let go, the elastic energy, as the spring passes through the equilibrium point, is converted to kinetic energy and it goes back and forth between compressing or stretching the spring and kinetic energy of motion. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5y82c9vedaakxt5aatkr6))
	- The laws which govern how much energy is available are called the laws of thermodynamics and involve a concept called entropy for irreversible thermodynamic processes. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5yd34km5gdx9dzes067ca))
		- **Tags**: #[[entropy]]
		- **Note**: Six Easy Pieces is a document written by Richard Feynman, a renowned physicist and teacher, which explains the essentials of physics. It focuses on the laws of thermodynamics, which govern the amount of energy available, and the concept of entropy, which applies to irreversible thermodynamic processes.
	- “It is impossible to design an apparatus to determine which hole the electron passes through, that will not at the same time disturb the electrons enough to destroy the interference pattern.” If an apparatus is capable of determining which hole the electron goes through, it cannot be so delicate that it does not disturb the pattern in an essential way. No one has ever found (or even thought of) a way around the uncertainty principle. So we must assume that it describes a basic characteristic of nature. The complete theory of quantum mechanics which we now use to describe atoms and, in fact, all matter depends on the correctness of the uncertainty principle. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5zk170swfhn8bn629scg3))
		- **Note**: It is impossible to make a machine that can tell us which hole an electron goes through without changing the pattern of electrons at the same time. Even if we could make a machine that could tell us which hole the electron goes through, it would still change the pattern of electrons. Nobody has ever thought of a way around this problem, which is called the "uncertainty principle." This principle is very important because it helps us understand how atoms and all matter work.