title:: Skin in the Game: Hidden Asymmetries in Daily Life (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Skin in the Game: Hidden Asymmetries in Daily Life"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/skin-in-the-game/
document_note:: Skin in the game is a concept that emphasizes the importance of having a personal stake in the outcome of any decision or action, as it is essential for fairness, commercial efficiency, and risk management. It is linked to notions of incentives, ethics, trust, responsibility, reciprocity, risk science, and more. The idea is that the only effective way to judge someone's beliefs or actions is through their willingness to risk something. It stresses the importance of avoiding universalism and taking into account the context of the situation. It also suggests that individuals need to take risks in order to succeed, as well as focus on the consequences of their actions. Finally, it supports the notion that courage is the highest virtue.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- definition, what works cannot be irrational; about every single person I know who has chronically failed in business shares that mental block, the failure to realize that if something stupid works (and makes money), it cannot be stupid. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4qvds27nthwfvqttzzy2r))
		- **Note**: The text states that if something is successful, even if it seems stupid, it cannot be stupid. Furthermore, it suggests that many people who fail in business may have a mental block that prevents them from understanding this concept.
	- We saw that interventionistas don’t learn because they are not the victims of their mistakes, and, as we hinted at with pathemata mathemata: **The same mechanism of transferring risk also impedes learning. More practically, You will never fully convince someone that he is wrong; only reality can.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4rsxa2g05dwqa5g0e80h4))
		- **Note**: This text discusses how the mechanism of transferring risk prevents learning because those making decisions are not the victims of their mistakes, so the only way to truly convince someone they are wrong is through reality.
	- Evolution can only happen if risk of extinction is present. Further, There is no evolution without skin in the game. This last point is quite obvious, but I keep seeing academics with no skin in the game defend evolution while at the same time rejecting skin in the game and risk sharing. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4rg5mn3fzh4dr859ga7b6))
		- **Note**: This text argues that evolution is only possible when individuals are exposed to risk and have "skin in the game". It also points out the hypocrisy of academics who accept the theory of evolution but reject the idea of risk sharing and having "skin in the game".
	- No muscles without strength, friendship without trust, opinion without consequence, change without aesthetics, age without values, life without effort, water without thirst, food without nourishment, love without sacrifice, power without fairness, facts without rigor, statistics without logic, mathematics without proof, teaching without experience, politeness without warmth, values without embodiment, degrees without erudition, militarism without fortitude, progress without civilization, friendship without investment, virtue without risk, probability without ergodicity, wealth without exposure, complication without depth, fluency without content, decision without asymmetry, science without skepticism, religion without tolerance, and, most of all: nothing without skin in the game. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5ggabnr0a2q70tjz0xnxy))
	- Immanuel Kant’s categorical imperative, which I summarize as: Behave as if your action can be generalized to the behavior of everyone in all places, under all conditions ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4t2yqxnwj4ycbtf6s5kyz))
		- **Tags**: #[[@kant]]
		- **Note**: Skin in the Game is an exploration of how Immanuel Kant's Categorical Imperative can be applied to everyday life. Kant argued that all people should behave as if their actions can be generalized for everyone in all places and under all conditions, suggesting that everyone should always be held accountable for their actions.
	- The principle of intervention, like that of healers, is first do no harm (primum non nocere); even more, we will argue, those who don’t take risks should never be involved in making decisions. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4snew8p8t2maerrprd086))
		- **Note**: This article argues that people who do not take risks should not be involved in making decisions, and that the principle of intervention should be to "first do no harm".
	- **Primo, artisans do things for existential reasons first, financial and commercial ones later**. Their decision making is never fully financial, but it remains financial. Secundo, they have some type of “art” in their profession; they stay away from most aspects of industrialization; they combine art and business. Tertio, they put some soul in their work: they would not sell something defective or even of compromised quality because it hurts their pride. Finally, they have sacred taboos, things they would not do even if it markedly increased profitability. Compendiaria res improbitas, virtusque tarda—the villainous takes the short road, virtue the longer one. In other words, cutting corners is dishonest. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4tr8bthk8gg7j3zhm2yby))
		- **Note**: This document discusses the behavior of artisans and their commitment to their craft. They prioritize the "existential" over the financial and commercial, and strive for quality and integrity, even if it means sacrificing profits. They have a sense of "soul" and pride in their work, and have sacred taboos that they will not break, no matter how profitable it may be. In short, they are committed to doing the right thing, even if it may take longer.
	- “What is hateful to you, do not do to your fellow: this is the whole Torah; the rest is the explanation; go and learn.” Rabbi Hillel the Elder drawing on Leviticus 19:18. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4vnk94k6zf005dj4gqjr8))
		- **Note**: Treat other people the way you want to be treated. This is the most important thing to remember when it comes to how we should act. Everything else is just extra explanation. Go out and learn more about it!
	- Avoid taking advice from someone who gives advice for a living, unless there is a penalty for their advice. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4x2jmjrjjghgz02x1j2bh))
	- A saying by the brothers Geoff and Vince Graham summarizes the ludicrousness of scale-free political universalism. I am, at the Fed level, libertarian; at the state level, Republican; at the local level, Democrat; and at the family and friends level, a socialist. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4xfb84mabmjyg2a80baew))
		- **Note**: This saying by the Graham brothers illustrates the absurdity of expecting one's political beliefs to remain the same across all levels of society, from the federal level to the family and friends level. They suggest that one may be a libertarian at the federal level, a Republican at the state level, a Democrat at the local level, and a socialist at the family and friends level.
	- •   Groups are units on their own. There are qualitative differences between a group of ten and a group of, say, 395,435. Each is a different animal, in the literal sense, as different as a book is from an office building. When we focus on commonalities, we get confused, but, at a certain scale, things become different. Mathematically different. The higher the dimension, in other words, the higher the number of possible interactions, and the more disproportionally difficult it is to understand the macro from the micro, the general from the simple units. This disproportionate increase of computational demands is called the curse of dimensionality. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4yd57b82j232mb8477d6b))
		- **Note**: This document discusses the concept of the "curse of dimensionality," which is the disproportionate increase in computational demands when trying to understand the macro from the micro or the general from the simple units as the dimension increases. It highlights the difference between a group of 10 and a group of 395,435, suggesting that each is a different animal and that focusing on commonalities can lead to confusion.
	- The underlying structure of reality matters much more than the participants, ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4y6v0k6r1dqr391r88526))
	- Now, crucially, time is equivalent to disorder, and resistance to the ravages of time, that is, what we gloriously call survival, is the ability to handle disorder. That which is fragile has an asymmetric response to volatility and other stressors, that is, will experience more harm than benefit from it. In probability, volatility and time are the same. **The idea of fragility helped put some rigor around the notion that the only effective judge of things is time—by things we mean ideas, people, intellectual productions, car models, scientific theories, books, etc. You can’t fool Lindy:** **For time operates through skin in the game. Things that have survived are hinting to us ex post that they have some robustness—conditional on their being exposed to harm. For without skin in the game, via exposure to reality, the mechanism of fragility is disrupted: things may survive for no reason for a while, at some scale, then ultimately collapse, causing a lot of collateral harm.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq4z9x371n7r71z97t8tamr))
		- **Note**: This text explains that time and volatility are equivalent and that the idea of fragility puts rigor around the notion that only time is an effective judge of things. It goes on to explain that things that have survived have some robustness and that without skin in the game, via exposure to reality, the mechanism of fragility is disrupted and things may collapse, causing collateral harm.
	- If your private life conflicts with your intellectual opinion, it cancels your intellectual ideas, not your private life. And a solution to the vapid universalism we discussed in the Prologue: If your private actions do not generalize, then you cannot have general ideas. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq507c6eg1c9zjnb00t0n9d))
		- **Note**: This passage is saying that if the things you do in your private life don't match what you think or say, then your ideas aren't true. A solution to this problem is that if your actions don't work for everyone, then you cannot have ideas that work for everyone.
	- Survival comes first, truth, understanding, and science later. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5132sxcm0twshvs4fp6rr))
	- **Risk and ruin are different tings.** **In a strategy that entails ruin, benefits never offset risks of ruin.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq51954x4nacwqdma1ckh6m))
		- **Tags**: #[[risk]]
		- **Note**: When it comes to taking risks, it is not the same as if something bad happens and you are ruined. When something bad happens and it causes you to be ruined, even if there are benefits, they won't help.
	- Ergodicity holds when a collection of players have the same statistical properties (particularly expectation) as a single player over time. Ensemble probabilities are similar to time probabilities. Absence of ergodicity makes the risk properties not directly transferable from observed probability to the payoff of a strategy subjected to ruin (or any absorbing barrier or “uncle point”)—in other words, not probabilistically sustainable. Mediocristan: ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq52j9gbp4a5m6xzf9997k7))
		- **Note**: Ergodicity means that when a group of people have the same chances of success, it is the same as one person having the same chances of success over time. The chances of success are similar whether you look at the group as a whole or at one person. If ergodicity is not present, then the risk of failure cannot be easily calculated from past experiences.
	- A situation is deemed non-ergodic when observed past probabilities do not apply to future processes. There is a “stop” somewhere, an absorbing barrier that prevents people with skin in the game from emerging from it—and to which the system will invariably tend. Let us call these situations “ruin,” as there is no reversibility away from the condition. The central problem is that if there is a possibility of ruin, cost-benefit analyses are no longer possible. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq53jc9p5e08qyq3n04mc8s))
		- **Note**: A situation is non-ergodic when the chances of something happening in the past are not the same as the chances of something happening in the future. When there is a possibility of ruin, it means that if bad things happen, it can't be undone. When this happens, it's not possible to make decisions based on the possible costs and benefits.
	- If you incur a tiny probability of ruin as a “one-off” risk, survive it, then do it again (another “one-off” deal), you will eventually go bust with a probability of one hundred percent. Confusion arises because it may seem that if the “one-off” risk is reasonable, then an additional one is also reasonable. This can be quantified by recognizing that the probability of ruin approaches 1 as the number of exposures to individually small risks, say one in ten thousand, increases. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq54hd5eeh7w7365mz58kd4))
		- **Note**: If you take a very small risk that could ruin you, and you survive it, but then do the same thing again, eventually the chance of you going bust (losing everything) is one hundred percent. People get confused because it looks like if one small risk is okay, then taking another one should be okay too. But if you keep taking small risks, the chance of you going bust eventually becomes almost certain.
	- Every single risk you take adds up to reduce your life expectancy. Finally: Rationality is avoidance of systemic ruin. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5578pkan2x65vw67sdcdb))
		- **Note**: This document discusses the idea that taking risks can have an impact on an individual's life expectancy, and that understanding the risks involved and making rational decisions is essential in order to avoid serious negative consequences.
	- Rent-seeking is trying to use protective regulations or “rights” to derive income without adding anything to economic activity, not increasing the wealth of others. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq568axw1jemx2zvvwhvazh))
	- We used to live in small communities; our reputations were directly determined by what we did—we were watched. **Today, anonymity brings out the a**hole in people. So I accidentally discovered a way to change the behavior of unethical and abusive persons without verbal threat. Take their pictures. Just the act of taking their pictures is similar to holding their lives in your hands and controlling their future behavior thanks to your silence. They don’t know what you can do with it, and will live in a state of uncertainty.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq56ngn6znwa8sf3hqqdnx0))
		- **Note**: This article discusses how anonymity can bring out negative behavior in people, and suggests a way to change this behavior without verbal threats: by taking pictures of the people who are being unethical and abusive. This creates a sense of uncertainty in them and can help to control their future behavior.
	- Courage is the only virtue you cannot fake. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq57fygfc0q6e9nk22sbpws))
		- **Tags**: #[[courage]]
	- My lifetime motto is that mathematicians think in (well, precisely defined and mapped) objects and relations, jurists and legal thinkers in constructs, logicians in maximally abstract operators, and…fools in words. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq58aysbm99myd8basz04xc))
		- **Note**: My motto is that mathematicians think about things and how they are connected, lawyers and people who make laws think about rules, logicians think about very complicated ideas, and some people who aren't very smart think about words.
	- Love without sacrifice is theft (Procrustes). This applies to any form of love, particularly the love of God. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5ed98v2ccv26bjgxgbrav))
		- **Tags**: #[[love]]
	- Simon formulated the notion now known as bounded rationality: we cannot possibly measure and assess everything as if we were a computer; we therefore produce, under evolutionary pressures, some shortcuts and distortions. Our knowledge of the world is fundamentally incomplete, so we need to avoid getting into unanticipated trouble. And even if our knowledge of the world were complete, it would still be computationally near-impossible to produce a precise, unbiased understanding of reality. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5de3wn3dqjjdv9c10b4ck))
		- **Tags**: #[[rationalism]]
	- The only definition of rationality that I’ve found that is practically, empirically, and mathematically rigorous is the following: what is rational is that which allows for survival. Unlike modern theories by psychosophasters, it maps to the classical way of thinking. Anything that hinders one’s survival at an individual, collective, tribal, or general level is, to me, irrational. Hence the precautionary principle and sound risk understanding. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5ca6nvwfknhygt2wz5h2g))
		- **Tags**: #[[rationalism]]
	- Courage is when you sacrifice your own well-being for the sake of the survival of a layer higher than yours. Selfish courage is not courage. A foolish gambler is not committing an act of courage, especially if he is risking other people’s funds or has a family to feed. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5bd3ms5j9bhkse4dx02je))
		- **Tags**: #[[courage]]
	- Never compare a multiplicative, systemic, and fat-tailed risk to a non-multiplicative, idiosyncratic, and thin-tailed one. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq59e2hyr1vksf1pmkj14fx))
		- **Note**: This document is warning against comparing risks that have different characteristics. Multiplicative, systemic, and fat-tailed risks have different properties than non-multiplicative, idiosyncratic, and thin-tailed risks, and should not be compared.
	- Even economics is based on the notion of “revealed preferences.” What people “think” is not relevant—you want to avoid entering the mushy-soft and self-looping discipline of psychology. People’s “explanations” for what they do are just words, stories they tell themselves, not the business of proper science. What they do, on the other hand, is tangible and measurable and that’s what we should focus on. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq5acc9ebmmn45n3g3pmhhg))
		- **Note**: In economics, we look at what people actually do instead of what they say they do. We should pay attention to the measurable things people do instead of the words they tell themselves. We don't need to study the way people think because that's a soft and confusing subject.