title:: Talk:Thesis, Antithesis, Synthesis (highlights)
author:: [[wikipedia.org]]
full-title:: "Talk:Thesis, Antithesis, Synthesis"
category:: #articles
url:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk%3AThesis,_antithesis,_synthesis
tags:: #[[philosophy]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Apr 7th, 2023]]
	- So the great influence of Hegel on all subsequent philosophy is based on terms that he never used himself? Also, he used the classification only once, in a discussion of Kant's triadic Pure Concepts? It might be beneficial if someone, anyone, could **cite the exact location in Hegel's works in which he describes his famous three-step dialectic**. [Lestrade](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Lestrade) 21:57, 17 June 2007 (UTC)LestradeReply[reply]
	  
	  Can't find it! Brief excerpt of comments from hegel.net [http://www.hegel.net/en/faq.htm#6.4](http://www.hegel.net/en/faq.htm#6.4) - "The most vexing and devastating Hegel legend is that everything is thought in "thesis, antithesis, and synthesis." [...] The actual texts of Hegel not only occasionally deviate from "thesis, antithesis, and synthesis," but show nothing of the sort. "Dialectic" does not for Hegel mean "thesis, antithesis, and synthesis." Dialectic means that any "ism" - which has a polar opposite, or is a special viewpoint leaving "the rest" to itself - must be criticized by the logic of philosophical thought, whose problem is reality as such, the "World-itself." - Irrespective of the linguistics of representation of a concept if the concept is acknowledged in the body of work "as such" then which terms are used to popularise the concept are perhaps of less consequence. T.A.S and it's modern colloquial P.R.S. surely encapsulate and represent Hegel's concepts rather than misrepresent them apart from the issue of literal quotation anything else is semantics. Whether the literal quotes are found in the body of his work or not is debated but seems unlikely. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx9tftsx4ecxqwnm9c4556kd))
	- Kant's Influence[[edit](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Thesis,_antithesis,_synthesis&action=edit&section=5)]
	  
	  As is explained in the Talk page for [Dialectic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dialectic), Fichte and Hegel took their dialectical self–movement of thought from Kant's triadic table of categories. Kant wote:
	  
	  > in every class there is the same number of categories, namely three, which again makes us ponder, because generally all division *a priori* by means of concepts must be a dichotomy. It should be remarked also, that **the third category always arises from the combination of the second with the first** … *[Critique of Pure Reason](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Critique_of_Pure_Reason)*, B110 ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx9tgcqh9egkkb29h45jthmv))
	- Bertrand Russell's view[[edit](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Thesis,_antithesis,_synthesis&action=edit&section=6)]
	  
	  I have not read Hegel. However, Russell describes what characterizes Hegel's work as follows (from Russell, B. (1945), A history of western philosophy, p. 731, New York: Simon and Schuster, Thirteenth paperback printing, 1967):
	  
	  > Two things distinguish Hegel from other men who have had a more or less similar metaphysical outlook. One of these is emphasis deduced from the sole consideration that it must be not self-contradictory. The other distinguishing feature (which is closely connected with the first) is the tradic movement called the "dialectic". His most important books are his two *Logics*, and these must be understood if the reasons for his views on other subjects are to be rightly apprehended. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx9tg9ern2y0naz67j91s695))
	- *Thesis*: A simple concept – sometimes two coordinating concepts – that can usually be stated in one or two words (e.g., one). It has been claimed that the thesis is instead “an intellectual proposition” – a belief, an opinion, an argument – something requiring at least a full sentence and probably one or many paragraphs to present. But a thesis never contains a verb and never comes close to being a sentence. Much less does it require one or more paragraphs to state. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx9tgzyqwc2vpn3v05qvbyx0))
	- *Antithesis*: Another verbless concept, or two coordinating concepts. The antithesis is the opposite of, not just different from, the thesis (e.g., many, the opposite of one). When the thesis includes two concepts, the antithesis has the opposite two concepts. It has also been claimed that the synthesis is a “reaction” to the thesis “proposition,” but the claim is again incorrect. First, there are no propositions, just simple verbless concepts. Second, “reaction” implies a thesis-before-antithesis time sequence, whereas some dialectics (a minority) simply have two opposing concepts (e.g., subject and object) as thesis and antithesis; their order is arbitrary. Third, a “reaction” is not necessarily the opposite of the alleged first proposition, it can simply be a different point of view. But an antithesis is always the opposite of the thesis. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx9tgx0t8yfs1r1y2ka9se7n))
	- *Synthesis*: The word “synthesis” refers to combining or putting things together. Synthesis is the opposite of “analysis,” which is taking things apart. A dialectical synthesis combines the thesis and the antithesis; it never introduces a new concept not found in either the thesis or the antithesis. Most dialectics have two concepts per stage, in which case the synthesis incorporates one concept from the thesis and one from the antithesis. (Example: potential + freedom; actual + bondage; actual + freedom.) Sometimes the synthesis shows that the antithesis is really the thesis in disguise. (Example: infinite; finite; infinite = finite.) A closely related synthesis is universal (general category), particular (parts of the general category), universe composed of particulars (e.g. a fleet composed of ships). The synthesis is never a “new” or third “proposition,” a belief or argument that replaces both the thesis and the antithesis without borrowing from either. And contrary to a common myth, the synthesis never becomes the thesis of a follow-on dialectic. (No one has ever provided an example of the supposed interconnected series of dialectics, and there is no such example.) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx9tgsdygcp9smy64y38w403))
	- "Marx is **obsessed** by the word 'thesis'"[[edit](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Thesis,_antithesis,_synthesis&action=edit&section=13)]
	  
	  "Karl Marx (1818–1883) and Friedrich Engels (1820–1895) adopted and extended the triad, especially in Marx's The Poverty of Philosophy (1847). Here, in Chapter 2, Marx is obsessed by the word "thesis";"
	  
	  Why is the term "obsessed" used here? I checked the source, but it is simply the primary text of Marx, so seems like the word "obsessed" is an original observation made by whoever wrote that part of the text. The use of this term makes it seem like the article is perhaps criticizing Marx's writing here, so unless it is clarified with an additional source I believe it should be changed, or that part of the text be rewritten completely perhaps with better sources where Marx's "obsession" is analyzed because otherwise it is original research. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gx9thb1r746hwt8kfg6ydtt2))