title:: Team of Teams: New Rules of Engagement for a Complex World (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Team of Teams: New Rules of Engagement for a Complex World"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/team-of-teams/
document_note:: In Team of Teams: New Rules of Engagement for a Complex World, General Stanley McChrystal's experiences in Iraq are used to illustrate the importance of adaptability and responsiveness in today's ever-changing environment. The book emphasizes the need for decentralization, transparency, trust, and collaboration to build a "team of teams" that can harness the insights of many individuals. Leaders must take on a new role of overseeing and creating an environment that facilitates collaboration, rather than micromanaging and making decisions for their employees. The book also explores nonlinearity, complexity, and the need to unlearn and adapt to one's environment in order to be successful.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 18th, 2023]]
	- Aimed to scale the adaptability and cohesiveness typical of small teams up to the enterprise level. This involves creating a "team of teams" to foster cross-silo collaboration. This way the insights and actions of many teams and individuals can be harnessed across an organization. Innovation and problem solving become the products of teamwork, not a single architect. Doing this requires increasing transparency to ensure common understanding and awareness, changing the physical space and personal behaviors to establish trust and foster collaboration, decentralize and empower individuals to act as decisions are pushed downward which allows members to act quickly. This concept also changes the traditional concept of a leader - **the leader now becomes in charge of creating the broader environment to facilitate the above mentioned instead of being a command and control, micromanaging leade**r ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj0v3cfq4tqq1rak725evap))
		- **Note**: The goal is to make large groups of people work together as well as a small team. To do this, everyone needs to work together and share ideas across different groups. This will help everyone to solve problems and create new ideas together, instead of just relying on a single person. To make this work, everyone needs to be open and honest with each other, trust each other, and act quickly together. The leader's role changes too - instead of trying to control everyone and do everything, the leader needs to help everyone work together and provide a good environment so that everyone can do their best.
	- **Empowered execution** - pushing decisions downward so that those on the front lines, often those with the best info can act quickly and decisively ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj0tvfp9arsw7de2de38vam))
	- **Team of teams** - a large unit which captures at scale the traits of agility and adaptability normally limited to smaller teams ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj0tr9tzwf6wm62st15pt6a))
	- **Trust and common purpose** absolutely necessary for any team to be effective and sustainable ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj0tkx4t8v4bt2bcz0vd0fg))
	- **Nonlinearity -** Humans feel at home with linear functions. Nonlinear functions, on the other hand, make us very uncomfortable as they defy our intuitive understanding of growth and scale. Initial differences in the base or slight increases or decreases in the exponent have massive consequences ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj0rj9wfva4110kk0gynj2a))
	- The models of organizational success that dominated the 20th century have their roots in the industrial revolution and, simply put, the world has changed. **The pursuit of "efficiency" - getting the most with the least investment of energy, time or money - was once a laudable goal, but being effective in today's world is less a question of optimizing for a known (and relatively stable) set of variables than responsiveness to a constantly shifting environment. Adaptability, not efficiency, must become one's central competency.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj0s05dq5hgszs9gjp2kn3r))
		- **Note**: The way that businesses were successful in the past was based on how things were done during the Industrial Revolution. But, things are different now and it is no longer enough to just work hard to get the most with the least. Now, businesses need to be able to change and adapt to the ever-changing world. Adapting quickly is more important than trying to get the most with the least.
	- Changing through hundreds of iterations much more powerful, effective and efficient than trying to get it perfect the first time ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj0sdgqmpj1kphdm2xpyztd))
		- **Tags**: #[[experimentation]]
	- Appreciating the magnitude of what one doesn't know is vital ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj0t8wz450xv00677t3krxg))
	- Gaining understanding is not the same as predicting ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj0sxpybzb3phm4ghkbqszj))