title:: The Body Keeps the Score: Brain, Mind, and Body in the Healing of Trauma (highlights)
author:: [[Bessel van der Kolk MD]]
full-title:: "The Body Keeps the Score: Brain, Mind, and Body in the Healing of Trauma"
category:: #books
document_note:: 1. What are the main ways trauma affects the mind, brain, and body?
2. What are the most effective approaches to treating trauma? 
3. What are the latest findings in the field of trauma research?

The Body Keeps the Score is a book about the effects of trauma on the brain and body and how it can be healed. It is written by Bessel van der Kolk, a renowned neuroscientist, and is praised by other authors and professionals in the field of mental health. It discusses traditional approaches to treating trauma and introduces new approaches that help the patient heal on a deeper level. It also discusses how trauma affects the brain and body, and how to move beyond survival and thrive. It is a groundbreaking book that will help to change the way trauma is understood and treated.
tags:: #[[favorite]] #[[trauma]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Mar 13th, 2023]]
	- Our bodies are the texts that carry the memories and therefore remembering is no less than reincarnation.
	  
	  —Katie Cannon ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvcw8bpyh21nzkte8nmz4129))
	- Scientific interest in trauma has fluctuated wildly during the past 150 years. Charcot’s death in 1893 and Freud’s shift in emphasis to inner conflicts, defenses, and instincts at the root of mental suffering were just part of mainstream medicine’s overall loss of interest in the subject. Psychoanalysis rapidly gained in popularity. In 1911 the Boston psychiatrist Morton Prince, who had studied with William James and Pierre Janet, complained that those interested in the effects of trauma were like “clams swamped by the rising tide in Boston Harbor.”
	  
	  This neglect lasted for only a few years, though, because the outbreak of World War in 1914 once again confronted medicine and psychology with hundreds of thousands of men with bizarre psychological symptoms, unexplained medical conditions, and memory loss. The new technology of motion pictures made it possible to film these soldiers, and today on YouTube we can observe their bizarre physical postures, strange verbal utterances, terrified facial expressions, and tics—the physical, embodied expression of trauma: “a memory that is inscribed simultaneously in the mind, as interior images and words, and on the body.”[1](#EndnoteNumber245)
	  
	  Early in the war the British created the diagnosis of “shell shock,” which entitled combat veterans to treatment and a disability pension. The alternative, similar, diagnosis was “neurasthenia,” for which they received neither treatment nor a pension. It was up to the orientation of the treating physician which diagnosis a soldier received.[2](#EndnoteNumber246)
	  
	  More than a million British soldiers served on the Western Front at any one time. In the first few hours of July 1, 1916 alone, in the Battle of the Somme, the British army suffered 57,470 casualties, including 19,240 dead, the bloodiest day in its history. The historian John Keegan says of their commander, Field Marshal Douglas Haig, whose statue today dominates Whitehall in London, once the center of the British Empire: “In his public manner and private diaries no concern for human suffering was or is discernible.” At the Somme “he had sent the flower of British youth to death or mutilation.”[3](#EndnoteNumber247)
	  
	  As the war wore on, shell shock increasingly compromised the efficiency of the fighting forces. Caught between taking the suffering of their soldiers seriously and pursuing victory over the Germans, the British General Staff issued General Routine Order Number 2384 in June of 1917, which stated, “In no circumstances whatever will the expression ‘shell shock’ be used verbally or be recorded in any regimental or other casualty report, or any hospital or other medical document.” All soldiers with psychiatric problems were to be given a single diagnosis of “NYDN” (Not Yet Diagnosed, Nervous).[4](#EndnoteNumber248) In November 1917 the General Staff denied Charles Samuel Myers, who ran four field hospitals for wounded soldiers, permission to submit a paper on shell shock to the *British Medical Journal*. The Germans were even more punitive and treated shell shock as a character defect, which they managed with a variety of painful treatments, including electroshock.
	  
	  In 1922 the British government issued the Southborough Report, whose goal was to prevent the diagnosis of shell shock in any future wars and to undermine any more claims for compensation. It suggested the elimination of shell shock from all official nomenclature and insisted that these cases should no more be classified “as a battle casualty than sickness or disease is so regarded.”[5](#EndnoteNumber249) The official view was that well-trained troops, properly led, would not suffer from shell shock and that the servicemen who had succumbed to the disorder were undisciplined and unwilling soldiers. While the political storm about the legitimacy of shell shock continued to rage for several more years, reports on how to best treat these cases disappeared from the scientific literature.[6](#EndnoteNumber250)
	  
	  In the United States the fate of veterans was also fraught with problems. In 1918, when they returned home from the battlefields of France and Flanders, they had been welcomed as national heroes, just as the soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan are today. In 1924 Congress voted to award them a bonus of $1.25 for each day they had served overseas, but disbursement was postponed until 1945.
	  
	  By 1932 the nation was in the middle of the Great Depression, and in May of that year about fifteen thousand unemployed and penniless veterans camped on the Mall in Washington DC to petition for immediate payment of their bonuses. The Senate defeated the bill to move up disbursement by a vote of sixty-two to eighteen. A month later President Hoover ordered the army to clear out the veterans’ encampment. Army chief of staff General Douglas MacArthur commanded the troops, supported by six tanks. Major Dwight D. Eisenhower was the liaison with the Washington police, and Major George Patton was in charge of the cavalry. Soldiers with fixed bayonets charged, hurling tear gas into the crowd of veterans. The next morning the Mall was deserted and the camp was in flames.[7](#EndnoteNumber251) The veterans never received their pensions.
	  
	  While politics and medicine turned their backs on the returning soldiers, the horrors of the war were memorialized in literature and art. In *All Quiet on the Western Front,*[8](#EndnoteNumber252) a novel about the war experiences of frontline soldiers by the German writer Erich Maria Remarque, the book’s protagonist, Paul Bäumer, spoke for an entire generation: “I am aware that I, without realizing it, have lost my feelings—I don’t belong here anymore, I live in an alien world. I prefer to be left alone, not disturbed by anybody. They talk too much—I can’t relate to them—they are only busy with superficial things.”[9](#EndnoteNumber253) Published in 1929, the novel instantly became an international best seller, with translations in twenty-five languages. The 1930 Hollywood film version won the Academy Award for Best Picture.
	  
	  But when Hitler came to power a few years later, *All Quiet on the Western Front* was one of the first “degenerate” books the Nazis burned in the public square in front of Humboldt University in Berlin.[10](#EndnoteNumber254) Apparently awareness of the devastating effects of war on soldiers’ minds would have constituted a threat to the Nazis’ plunge into another round of insanity.
	  
	  Denial of the consequences of trauma can wreak havoc with the social fabric of society. The refusal to face the damage caused by the war and the intolerance of “weakness” played an important role in the rise of fascism and militarism around the world in the 1930s. The extortionate war reparations of the Treaty of Versailles further humiliated an already disgraced Germany. German society, in turn, dealt ruthlessly with its own traumatized war veterans, who were treated as inferior creatures. This cascade of humiliations of the powerless set the stage for the ultimate debasement of human rights under the Nazi regime: the moral justification for the strong to vanquish the inferior—the rationale for the ensuing war. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvcw8s1q5ks2qtfwnaqswxne))
	- Give sorrow words; the grief that does not speak knits up the o’er wrought heart and bids it break.
	  
	  —William Shakespeare, Macbeth ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvcvxkbbcvqsqvxyavk1cqac))
		- **Tags**: #[[grief]]
		- **Note**: William Shakespeare wrote that when we don't talk about our sorrow and grief, it makes our hearts feel tight and uncomfortable, like when you knit something up too tight and it is about to break.
	- We can hardly bear to look. The shadow may carry the best of the life we have not lived. Go into the basement, the attic, the refuse bin. Find gold there. Find an animal who has not been fed or watered. It is you!! This neglected, exiled animal, hungry for attention, is a part of your self.
	  
	  —Marion Woodman (as quoted by Stephen Cope in The Great Work of Your Life) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvcvyrcfsc35pwkdq9dxm1sn))
		- **Note**: Imagine going down to the basement, the attic, or even a trash can. Even though it might be scary, there could be something valuable hidden down there. It could be like finding an animal who hasn’t been given food or water. Even though you might feel neglected and alone, this animal is a part of you.
	- Traumatic events are almost impossible to put into words. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvcw06qbrf6avanzq91ak3rx))
	- As long as you keep secrets and suppress information, you are fundamentally at war with yourself. Hiding your core feelings takes an enormous amount of energy, it saps your motivation to pursue worthwhile goals, and it leaves you feeling bored and shut down. Meanwhile, stress hormones keep flooding your body, leading to headaches, muscle aches, problems with your bowels or sexual functions—and irrational behaviors that may embarrass you and hurt the people around you. Only after you identify the source of these responses can you start using your feelings as signals of problems that require your urgent attention. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvcw0r9s8j8ry2bks4n898mc))
	- WRITING TO YOURSELF
	  
	  There are other ways to access your inner world of feelings. One of the most effective is through writing. Most of us have poured out our hearts in angry, accusatory, plaintive, or sad letters after people have betrayed or abandoned us. Doing so almost always makes us feel better, even if we never send them. When you write to yourself, you don’t have to worry about other people’s judgment—you just listen to your own thoughts and let their flow take over. Later, when you reread what you wrote, you often discover surprising truths.
	  
	  As functioning members of society, we’re supposed to be “cool” in our day-to-day interactions and subordinate our feelings to the task at hand. When we talk with someone with whom we don’t feel completely safe, our social editor jumps in on full alert and our guard is up. Writing is different. If you ask your editor to leave you alone for a while, things will come out that you had no idea were there. You are free to go into a sort of a trance state in which your pen (or keyboard) seems to channel whatever bubbles up from inside. You can connect those self-observing and narrative parts of your brain without worrying about the reception you’ll get.
	  
	  In the practice called free writing, you can use any object as your own personal Rorschach test for entering a stream of associations. Simply write the first thing that comes to your mind as you look at the object in front of you and then keep going without stopping, rereading, or crossing out. A wooden spoon on the counter may trigger memories of making tomato sauce with your grandmother—or of being beaten as a child. The teapot that’s been passed down for generations may take you meandering to the furthest reaches of your mind to the loved ones you’ve lost or family holidays that were a mix of love and conflict. Soon an image will emerge, then a memory, and then a paragraph to record it. Whatever shows up on the paper will be a manifestation of associations that are uniquely yours.
	  
	  My patients often bring in fragments of writing and drawings about memories that they may not yet be ready to discuss. Reading the content out loud would probably overwhelm them, but they want me to be aware of what they are wrestling with. I tell them how much I appreciate their courage in allowing themselves to explore hitherto hidden parts of themselves and in entrusting me with them. These tentative communications guide my treatment plan—for example, by helping me to decide whether to add somatic processing, neurofeedback, or EMDR to our current work.
	  
	  As far as I’m aware, the first systematic test of the power of language to relieve trauma was done in 1986, when James Pennebaker at the University of Texas in Austin turned his introductory psychology class into an experimental laboratory. Pennebaker started off with a healthy respect for the importance of inhibition, of keeping things to yourself, which he viewed as the glue of civilization.[13](#EndnoteNumber354) But he also assumed that people pay a price for trying to suppress being aware of the elephant in the room.
	  
	  He began by asking each student to identify a deeply personal experience that they’d found very stressful or traumatic. He then divided the class into three groups: One would write about what was currently going on in their lives; the second would write about the details of the traumatic or stressful event; and the third would recount the facts of the experience, their feelings and emotions about it, and what impact they thought this event had had on their lives. All of the students wrote continuously for fifteen minutes on four consecutive days while sitting alone in a small cubicle in the psychology building.
	  
	  The students took the study very seriously; many revealed secrets that they had never told anyone. They often cried as they wrote, and many confided in the course assistants that they’d become preoccupied with these experiences. Of the two hundred participants, sixty-five wrote about a childhood trauma. Although the death of a family member was the most frequent topic*,* 22 percent of the women and 10 percent of the men reported sexual trauma prior to the age of seventeen.
	  
	  The researchers asked the students about their health and were surprised how often the students spontaneously reported histories of major and minor health problems: cancer, high blood pressure, ulcers, flu, headaches, and earaches.[14](#EndnoteNumber355) Those who reported a traumatic sexual experience in childhood had been hospitalized an average of 1.7 days in the previous year—almost twice the rate of the others.
	  
	  The team then compared the number of visits to the student health center participants had made during the month prior to the study to the number in the month following it. The group that had written about both the facts and the emotions related to their trauma clearly benefited the most: They had a 50 percent drop in doctor visits compared with the other two groups. Writing about their deepest thoughts and feelings about traumas had improved their mood and resulted in a more optimistic attitude and better physical health.
	  
	  When the students themselves were asked to assess the study, they focused on how it had increased their self-understanding: “It helped me think about what I felt during those times. I never realized how it affected me before.” “I had to think and resolve past experiences. One result of the experiment was peace of mind. To have to write about emotions and feelings helped me understand how I felt and why.”[15](#EndnoteNumber356)
	  
	  In a subsequent study Pennebaker asked half of a group of seventy-two students to talk into a tape recorder about the most traumatic experience of their lives; the other half discussed their plans for the rest of the day. As they spoke, researchers monitored their physiological reactions: blood pleasure, heart rate, muscle tension, and hand temperature.[16](#EndnoteNumber357) This study had similar results: Those who allowed themselves to feel their emotions showed significant physiological changes, both immediate and long term. During their confessions blood pressure, heart rate, and other autonomic functions increased, but afterward their arousal fell to levels below where they had been at the start of the study. The drop in blood pressure could still be measured six weeks after the experiment ended.
	  
	  It is now widely accepted that stressful experiences—whether divorce or final exams or loneliness—have a negative effect on immune function, but this was a highly controversial notion at the time of Pennebaker’s study. Building on his protocols, a team of researchers at the Ohio State University College of Medicine compared two groups of students who wrote either about a personal trauma or about a superficial topic.[17](#EndnoteNumber358) Again, those who wrote about personal traumas had fewer visits to the student health center, and their improved health correlated with improved immune function, as measured by the action of T lymphocytes (natural killer cells) and other immune markers in the blood. This effect was most obvious directly after the experiment, but it could still be the detected six weeks later. Writing experiments from around the world, with grade school students, nursing home residents, medical students, maximum-security prisoners, arthritis sufferers, new mothers, and rape victims, consistently show that writing about upsetting events improves physical and mental health.
	  
	  Another aspect of Pennebaker’s studies caught my attention: When his subjects talked about intimate or difficult issues, they often changed their tone of voice and speaking style. The differences were so striking that Pennebaker wondered if he had mixed up his tapes. For example, one woman described her plans for the day in a childlike, high-pitched voice, but a few minutes later, when she described stealing one hundred dollars from an open cash register, both the volume and pitch of her voice became so much lower that she sounded like an entirely different person. Alterations in emotional states were also reflected in the subjects’ handwriting. As participants changed topics, t ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvcw23xyhxfrdxczmm7fbqfz))
		- **Note**: This text discusses the use of writing to understand inner feelings and emotions and how it can be used to heal from trauma. It highlights James Pennebaker's 1986 study in which he asked participants to write about a deeply personal experience that was very stressful or traumatic and found that those who wrote about both the facts and emotions related to the trauma experienced a 50% drop in doctor visits. It also mentions a subsequent study which found that those who wrote about personal traumas had fewer visits to the student health center and improved immune function. Finally, the text notes that handwriting changes, such as switching between cursive and block letters, can indicate changes in emotional states in individuals with trauma histories.
	- Was it a vision, or a waking dream?  
	  Fled is that music;—Do I wake or sleep?
	  
	  —John Keats ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gvcw5e1tfmzhw7yd4a1szcmm))
		- **Note**: This poem is asking if the experience was real or imagined. The music has gone away, so it isn't clear if the person is still dreaming or if they are awake.