title:: The Artist’s Way: A Spiritual Path to Higher Creativity (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Artist’s Way: A Spiritual Path to Higher Creativity"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-artists-way/
document_note:: The Artist's Way by Blas Moros is a spiritual path to higher creativity. It includes two practices, Morning Pages and Artist Date, to help train creativity to become a steady flow. Morning Pages are three pages of hand-writing to get the creative juices flowing, and Artist Date is a once-per-week solo adventure. The book also encourages using both logic and artist brains to create new connections and meaning. The takeaway from the text is that Morning Pages and Artist Dates can be used to unlock creativity and the reader is interested in making them a monthly challenge.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- **Morning Pages** - 3 pages of land hand writing in the morning
	  
	  1.  A total brain dump to get your juices flowing and to unlock the flood gates
	  2.  Creates a direct link with the creator within, a pathway to a strong and clear sense of self - our map to our own interior
	  3.  When I feel lost, I go tot he pages and ask for guidance. I pose a question to myself and write from both question and answer perspectives ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7pc25whfph6zhw2kb67fc))
		- **Tags**: #[[journalling]]
	- A word is in order here about logic brain and artist brain. *Logic brain* is our brain of choice in the Western Hemisphere. it is the categorical brain. It thinks in a neat, linear fashion. As a rule, logic brain perceives the world according to known categories. A horse is a certain combination of animal parts that make up a horse. A fall forest is viewed as a series of colors that add up to "fall forest." It looks at a fall forest and notes: red, orange, yellow, green, gold. Logic brain was and is our survival brain. It works on known principles. Anything unknown is perceived as wrong and possibly dangerous. Logic brain likes things to be neat little soldiers marching in a straight line. Logic brain is the brain we usually listen to, especially when we are telling ourselves to be sensible. Logic brain is our censor. *Artist brain* is our inventor, our child, our very own personal absent-minded professor. Artist brain says, "Hey! That is so neat!" It puts odd things together (boat equals wave and walker). It likes calling a speeding GTO a wild animal: "The black howling wolf pulled into the drive-in..." Artist brain is our creative, holistic brain. It thinks in patterns and shadings. It sees a fall forest and thinks: Wow! Leaf bouquet! Pretty! Gold-gilt-shimmery-earthskin-king's-carpet! Artist brain is associative and freewheeling. It makes new connections, yoking together images to invoke meaning: like the Norse myths calling a boat "wave-horse" In Star Wars, the name Skywalker is a lovely artist-brain flash. Combining both is a powerful mixture ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7pq170w44qwdavkm3g89k))
		- **Note**: We have two kinds of brains: logic brain and artist brain. Logic brain is the brain we usually use in the Western Hemisphere. It helps us think logically and in a straight line. It looks at things in terms of specific categories and makes sure that everything is in order and "sensible". Artist brain is our creative brain. It can make new connections by putting things together in unexpected ways. It looks at things in terms of patterns, colors, and feelings. For example, it might see a boat and think of it as a "wave-horse". It is free and open to new ideas.