title:: The Cold Start Problem (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Cold Start Problem"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-cold-start-problem/
document_note:: Andrew Chen explains how successful tech products have solved the "Cold Start Problem" by leveraging network effects, creating "Magic Moments" for users, understanding the size and density of an initial network, and focusing on the hard sides of the network. He emphasizes the importance of understanding who the most important users are to get onto a nascent network, finding the right people to use the product in the right way, and creating a positive "Expectations Gap" with competitors. He also discusses the Acquisition Effect, Engagement Effect, and Economic Effect that are needed to reach Escape Velocity, as well as adding layers to a product to grow the core market.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- The solution to the Cold Start Problem starts by understanding how to add a small group of the right people, at the same time, using the product in the right way. Getting this initial network off the ground is the key, and the key is the “atomic network”—the smallest, stable network from which all other networks can be built. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1bx79p6jqesxmwwsxba50p))
		- **Note**: The Cold Start Problem can be solved by creating an "atomic network" of the right people who use the product in the correct way. This initial network is essential for building all other networks.
	- •   Tipping Point
	    1.  Generally one side of the network will be easier to attract—this is the easy side of the network. However, the most important part of any early network is attracting and retaining “The Hard Side” of a network—the small percentage of people that typically end up doing most of the work within the community.
	    2.  Not only does a product have to appeal to the hard side of the network, but as I discuss in “The Killer Product,” the most successful network effects–driven apps are also sometimes dead simple. They eschew a long list of features and instead emphasize the interactions among people using the app.
	    3.  Thus the order of operations, at least for most consumer-facing marketplaces, is “supply, demand, supply, supply, supply.” While supply might be easy to get onto the network early on through subsidies, eventually it will become the bottleneck.
	    4.  The key insight in the stories of Homobiles or Tinder is—how do you find a problem where the hard side of a network is engaged, but their needs are unaddressed? The answer is to look at hobbies and side hustles.
	    5.  The Magic Moment is a nice concept, but it would be even more useful if you could measure it. The way to best do this might be surprising—you start with the opposite of magic, the moments where the network has broken down, and you start solving the problem from there. At Uber, we called these moments Zeroes. A zero at Uber was the worst experience you could have, when a rider opens the Uber app with the intent to pick an address and pick up a ride—but there aren’t any drivers in the area! This is a zero. When the point of the product is to interact with other participants in the network, a zero means that its value can’t be fulfilled, which means users will bounce and possibly never come back again.
	    6.  For networked products, the curation of the network—who’s on it, why they’re there, and how they interact with each other—is as important as its product design. Starting with a deliberate point of view on who’s best for your network will define its magnetism, culture, and ultimate trajectory.
	    7.  People You May Know was a key part of LinkedIn’s success, generating billions of connections within the network. It started with “completing the triangle”—if a bunch of your friends have all connected with Alice but you haven’t yet, then there’s a good chance you might know Alice, too. This helped scale the density of the LinkedIn network so that even after you added hundreds of connections, the site could still help recommend relevant people to you. This is a direct example of alleviating the overcrowding dynamics of a social network, which is exactly why people recommendations, relevance-driven feeds, trending topics, and a slew of other algorithmic approaches have been layered onto social products over time. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1bxhrrdk52tbxpkjap5aeq))
		- **Note**: The Cold Start Problem is the challenge of getting a network off the ground. To do this, the product must appeal to the hard side of the network, which is the small percentage of people who do most of the work. It should also be simple and focus on interactions among users. To build the network, supply needs to be generated, often through subsidies. To find the right problem to engage the Hard Side, look at hobbies and side hustles. Measuring Magic Moments involves looking for moments where the network has failed and solving that problem. Finally, curating the network and having features like "People You May Know" can help alleviate overcrowding and offer relevance-driven feeds.
	- “The Acquisition Effect,” on the other hand, is the network effect that powers the acquisition of new customers into your product—in other words, viral growth. Products are inherently viral when people bring their friends and colleagues into a network simply by using it—as Dropbox, messaging apps, and social networks do.
	  
	  1.  As a rough benchmark for evaluating startups at Andreessen Horowitz, I often look for a minimum baseline of 60 percent retention after day 1, 30 percent after day 7, and 15 percent at day 30, where the curve eventually levels out. It’s usually only the networked products that can exceed these numbers. That’s because networked products are unique in that they often become stickier over time, which cancels out the inevitable customer churn. In rare but exceptional cases, the curve will “smile”—meaning that retention and engagement will actually go up over time, and churned users will reactivate. I’ve learned that when a startup shows a smile curve, you should probably try to invest. It’s exceedingly rare. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1by0xmbsxydnfcb74q4bh3))
		- **Note**: The "Acquisition Effect" is a network effect that allows for viral growth of products. As a benchmark for evaluating startups, a minimum baseline of 60% retention after day 1, 30% after day 7, and 15% at day 30 is often used. Networked products are unique in that they become stickier over time, and in rare cases, the curve will show increased retention and engagement over time, known as the "smile curve". This is an indicator that investing in a startup may be a good choice.
	- Hitting the Ceiling
	  
	  1.  Rather than focusing on the core network of Power Users—the loud and vocal minority that often drive product decisions—instead the approach was to constantly figure out the adjacent set of users whose experience was subpar.
	  2.  In the framework of adding layers to a cake, serving each adjacent network is like adding a new layer. Doing this requires a team to think about new markets, rather than listening to their vocal core markets—a hard feat when the core market generates most of the revenue. For the core market, there’s a different way to grow: adding new formats for people to connect and engage with each other. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1by744gmpg2qfsengcgjq9))
		- **Note**: The Cold Start Problem focuses on improving the experience of users that are adjacent to the core network of Power Users rather than just catering to the core network. This requires a team to look into new markets instead of just listening to their vocal core markets as this core market generates most of the revenue. To grow the core market, new formats of connecting and engaging with each other needs to be explored.
	- The Moat
	  
	  1.  In the early days at Airbnb, we would always talk about creating a positive “Expectations Gap.” In the early days, when we were new, guests go in with low expectations, but then would be blown away by the experience. You need this high NPS to get people to tell their friends, and it makes hosts more likely to join too. Our competitors who took shortcuts couldn’t deliver here.
	  2.  Rarely in network-effects-driven categories does a product win based on features—instead, it’s a combination of harnessing network effects and building a product experience that reinforces those advantages.
	  3.  Focusing on the hard sides of the network, which are usually smaller in number, provides leverage in competitive moves. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1bynbxwq4z7838mk828m3a))
		- **Note**: The Cold Start Problem refers to the difficulty of achieving a positive Expectations Gap in the early stages of a network-effects-driven product. To overcome this, the focus should be on harnessing the network effects and building an experience that reinforces these advantages. Additionally, focusing on the hard sides of the network, which are usually smaller in number, provides leverage in competitive moves.