title:: The Network State (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Network State"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-network-state/
document_note:: The Network State is an online community with a capacity for collective action that crowdfunds territory around the world and eventually gains diplomatic recognition from existing states. It is ideologically aligned and geographically decentralized, with a focus on moral innovation, a sense of national consciousness, an integrated cryptocurrency, a consensual government, and an on-chain census to prove population and income. It is characterized by competition between the Network and the State, with a focus on left- and right-libertarians against left- and right-authoritarians, and a synthesis of Network and God: an AI-driven morality. The founders of the Network State have a goal of moral progress, and must provide a sense of purpose in order to recruit producers for their society.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- Synthesis: The Network/God One important synthesis that deserves special mention is the “Network/God”: a Network God, an AI God, a GPT-9 or DALL·E 10 that gives instant, superhuman answers to difficult questions using the knowledge of all of humanity. After all, people already do confide to Google as if it were God, or at least a confessions booth. In the 1980s there was a popular children’s book called Are You There God? It’s Me, Margaret, and you can imagine an app version of this where people ask a given AI God for advice. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1c0752j6vfxpzpqpbaatpc))
	- People have talked about zombie Reaganism, but in this scenario a new coalition would be finally popping into view. And it’s a totally different carving of the political spectrum than the Reagan era. Rather than nationalists and capitalists (the right) against internationalists and socialists (the left), it’s internationalists and capitalists (left- and right-libertarians) against socialists and nationalists (left- and right-authoritarians).60 That Realignment would be the Network against the State. The authoritarians would outnumber the libertarians domestically, and have the institutions on their side. But the libertarians would have stronger individual talent, as they’d draw the iconoclasts, and they’d also draw support from the rest of the world. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1c0gv6pxpb33wjvetd5g6m))
		- **Note**: The author of this document is saying that in the past, people used to think of two sides to politics - the right (nationalists and capitalists) and the left (internationalists and socialists). But now, things have changed and it's a different picture. Now, the two sides are libertarians (left and right) against authoritarians (left and right). The libertarians have more talent and are supported more by the rest of the world, but the authoritarians have the most people and have the most powerful institutions on their side.
	- Communities are Causes First, Companies Second ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1c1ndyyjwbchh4qre2cvr1))
	- Lee Kuan Yew: The state should provide its people with the maximum enjoyment of freedoms and respect the family unit. The state should embrace multiple nations yet demand loyalty ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1c1xwaf7bey204q8v70wka))