title:: The Bhagavad Gita (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Bhagavad Gita"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-bhagavad-gita/
document_note:: The Bhagavad Gita is a conversation between Arjuna and Krishna that takes place before the battle over control of Hastinapura between the Kauravas and Pandavas. Krishna explains to Arjuna his dharmic duty to fight and how he must fight in order to restore his karma. He also explains the samsaric cycle of birth and death, as well as the three concepts for achieving the dissolution of the soul - renunciation, selfless service, and meditation. In the end, Arjuna understands and proceeds into battle. The Gita is a lesson in the importance of selfless service, understanding the impermanence of the body and its desires, and ultimately finding freedom in union with God.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 18th, 2023]]
	- Krishna first explains the samsaric cycle of birth and death. **He says there is no true death of the soul -- simply a sloughing of the body at the end of each round of birth and death.** The purpose of this cycle is to allow a person to work off their karma, accumulated through lifetimes of action. If a person completes action selflessly, in service to God, then they can work off their karma, eventually leading to a dissolution of the soul, the achievement of enlightenment and vijnana, and an end to the samsaric cycle. If they act selfishly, then they keep accumulating debt, putting them further and further into karmic debt ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gshy8a11n6g4x6fbj7fyw8f4))
		- **Note**: Krishna teaches that the samsaric cycle of birth and death is a way for a person to work off their karma. He states that there is no true death of the soul, but rather a sloughing of the body at the end of each cycle. Depending on how a person acts, it can lead to a dissolution of the soul, enlightenment, and an end to the samsaric cycle, or further karmic debt.
	- **Krishna presents three main concepts for achieving this dissolution of the soul -- renunciation, selfless service, and meditation.** All three are elements for achieving 'yoga,' or skill in action. Krishna says that the truly divine human does not renounce all worldly possessions or simply give up action, but rather finds peace in completing action in the highest service to God. As a result, **a person must avoid the respective traps of the three gunas: rajas (anger, ego), tamas (ignorance, darkness), and saatva (harmony, purity).** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gshy90zrcm0avq1ygm3zx0mt))
		- **Note**: The Bhagavad Gita discusses three main concepts for achieving the dissolution of the soul: renunciation, selfless service and meditation. These are essential for achieving 'yoga', or skill in action. It is not necessary to give up action entirely, but instead to find peace in completing action in the highest service to God. To do this, one must avoid the traps of the three gunas: rajas (anger, ego), tamas (ignorance, darkness), and saatva (harmony, purity).
	- **The highest form of meditation comes when a person not only can free themselves from selfish action, but also focus entirely on the divine in their actions.** In other words, Krishna says that he who achieves divine union with him in meditation will ultimately find freedom from the endless cycle of rebirth and death. He who truly finds union with God will find him even at the moment of death. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gshy71q8m7gdsajgfah1se3c))
		- **Note**: The Bhagavad Gita encourages people to focus on the divine in their actions, as this is the highest form of meditation. Through this, one can achieve divine union with Krishna and ultimately find freedom from the cycle of rebirth and death. Moreover, even at the moment of death, one can still be united with God.
	- Arjuna stills seem to need evidence of Krishna's divine powers, so Arjuna appears to him in his powerful, most divine form, with the "power of one thousand suns." Seeing Krishna in his divine state, Arjuna suddenly realizes what enlightenment can bring him in union, and he now completely has faith in the yogic path. He goes on to ask Krishna how he can receive the love of God, and Krishna reveals that love comes from a person's selfless devotion to the divine, in addition to an understanding that the body is simply ephemeral -- a product of prakriti, emerging from purusha, and is subject to endless rebirth. **A person must let go of their body's cravings and temptations and aversions to find freedom.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gshy7gj65kxdrmyek0fnghte))
		- **Note**: The Bhagavad Gita reveals that to find love of God, one must be devoted to the divine, understand that the body is ephemeral, and let go of cravings, temptations, and aversions.