title:: The Laws of Human Nature (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Laws of Human Nature"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-laws-of-human-nature/
document_note:: The Laws of Human Nature stresses the importance of understanding how we are wired in order to better deal with others and be aware of when they are trying to manipulate us. It encourages self awareness and encourages people to strive to be the best version of themselves, to focus on the long-term view, to observe people and the group dynamics, and to be aware of the consequences of their actions. Finally, it emphasizes the importance of putting others before yourself and developing empathy.
tags:: #[[self-awareness]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- •   Realize that people often act the opposite of how they feel - someone loud and obnoxious is often insecure
	  •   Emotions taint our thinking and behaviors, not allowing us to see and act in accordance with reality, leading to bad decisions, pain, and stress. By admitting and embracing this rationality we can slowly tame our emotions, become more rational, thereby making us more effective and insightful as we can align with reality, to see things as they really are and not as we wish they were
	  •   The first step to tame your rationality is to admit that you are irrational. As you become more introspective, the calm inner voice will grow more confident and louder, allowing you to see things more clearly and accurately. You first recognize the biases in yourself and work towards giving yourself the space and time to think and act how you want, and not simply react emotionally
	  •   The goal of rationality is not to eliminate emotion, but to channel it in order to become aware of why you are feeling what you are feeling - to take advantage of it and use it to further what you want to do
	  •   You can become more rational by becoming more aware of low grade irrationality or what happens in the subconscious, and high-grade rationality (what happens in your conscious). Over time, you will be able to train your emotions so that you become be less reactive over time. You improve your rationality by first knowing yourself thoroughly - knowing your strengths and weaknesses, how you react under pressure, and when you’re flattered. Next, you must improve your reaction time giving yourself space to think and not just react instinctively. Then you must accept people as facts and not try to change them but just accept who they are, understand them, and how you have to deal with them
	  •   We must learn from our mistakes. The point of memory is to not repeat mistakes but so few people take the time and energy to really dive into what caused him to err. We have to become aware in the moment of things that make us react and dive into why we feel that way - is it a childhood trauma, something our parents told us, or why do we just react emotionally?
	  •   People‘s true character and ability shine through under stress. You have to find time, space, and quiet in order to be able to think and gain perspective. Don’t think you are above stress and that it doesn’t impact you - it does!
	  •   Be weary of groups as it doesn’t stimulate rationality and independent thought but rather the much deeper and more ingrained part of us that wishes to belong - leading to herd behavior
	  •   Don’t think that we are in a steady path towards rationality as a species. The pendulum swings back and forth between rationality and irrationality. It is part of the cycle of human nature. Irrationality won’t always look the same but it will always come back. Improving rationality is something to be done at an individual level and not at a species level ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhd84a8mppd6fdgd75jm1n))
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature encourages the reader to recognize and accept their own irrationality in order to become more rational. It emphasizes the need for introspection and self-awareness, as well as understanding and accepting others for who they are. It cautions against group mentality, as it does not stimulate independent thinking and can lead to herd behavior. Lastly, it acknowledges that irrationality ebbs and flows, and can never be completely overcome, but can still be improved upon on an individual level.
	- •   We must be honest with ourselves and grow and come to love a cohesive self or risk falling into narcissism
	  •   Turning your attention outwards to others rather than inwards like most people do will help you grow your empathy muscle and give others the attention they so gravely seek
	  •   Shackleton in the toughest of times drew out very specific daily tasks to give everyone meaning and focus. In addition, he understood each man so well that he knew what to talk to them about, when, and how to keep them happy, their morale high and content. This empathy was literally life and death as it is for us, although it’s not as clear ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhebp6s409jm7a411dk60j))
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature advise that one should be honest with themselves in order to grow and avoid narcissism. To facilitate growth, one should focus their attention on others rather than themselves. Furthermore, giving others the attention they need and understanding them deeply, as Shackleton did, can be essential for maintaining morale and even for survival.
	- •   People hide their true feelings and intentions so you must become an expert reader in other people and at the same time learn how to play your role as convincingly and consistently as possible
	  •   Milton Erickson was diagnosed with polio at a young age and to occupy his mind he observed others extremely closely and through this knowledge and pattern recognition came to see an incredible world of nonverbal cues, motions, gestures, the importance of tone of voice, and everything beyond what is simply said. Observe, observe, observe. People tell you so much with their walk, tone of voice, how they sit, their micro expressions, and more.
	  •   Negative emotions leak out through body language and they must be observed and weighed more than whatever mask people put on
	  •   Be authentic, humble, open minded and generous - “saintly” and above reproach ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhf6abg2hh46g7yg9vntk0))
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature encourages readers to become expert readers of other people by observing their body language, tone of voice, micro expressions, and more. It also suggests being authentic, humble, open-minded, and generous to create a "saintly" impression. Negative emotions can leak through body language, so they should be observed and weighed more than what people are saying. The document was inspired by Milton Erickson, who developed an incredible understanding of nonverbal cues after being diagnosed with polio.
	- •   Gravitate to those who display strength. One best reads people’s character in stressful and difficult times
	  •   Character comes from the Greek word meaning "stamped upon". Our character is ingrained in us and is composed of our genetics, our earliest relationships and quality of attachments, and from habits and experiences. We can learn to compensate any harmful traits but for the most part they’re hard to rid
	  •   People are quite bad at judging character but the most reliable way to assess someone is through their actions (people never do anything just once, actions are truer and can’t be rationalized by words), how people handle small and simple affairs, how people handle power and responsibility. Try to only work with people of strong character for those with weak character will negate all their other good qualities and will cause more headache than you want. People who are strong of character are as rare as gold and you should hold onto them is if you found treasure
	  •   It is impossible to change one's or others' character but you can mitigate them by going deep within yourself, admitting your flaws and weaknesses, and doing all you can to strengthen them up and act in such away to emphasize your strengths and downplay your weaknesses. The goal is not to become someone else but to be thoroughly and authentically the best version of yourself ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhfzx8shrzhxqzj9fq40mg))
		- **Note**: The main points of the text are that character is determined by genetics, relationships, and experiences and is hard to change, but it is possible to mitigate negative traits. People are bad at judging character, but it can be best assessed through their actions. It is important to gravitate towards people of strong character, as they are rare and valuable. It is impossible to change another's character, but one can strive to be the best version of themselves.
	- •   Realize that most people, no matter how often it is said, don’t really want truth and facts, they want their imagination lifted and their ego boosted
	  •   Realize that the grass is rarely greener on the other side
	  •   Learn when and how to remove yourself. You also want to be a little cold and ambiguous so people can't get a great feel for you
	  •   It is not possession but desire that drives people. By becoming a scarce commodity and playing on other's covetousness, you can become highly desirable
	  •   In the end, what you must covet is a closer relationship to reality, bringing calmness, knowledge about yourself, an understanding of what you can change and what you can't, and being OK with both ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhh01bkjgzeyxx9xwbpd3p))
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature emphasizes that people are driven by desire and not possession, and advises to be a scarce commodity and to play on other's covetousness to become highly desirable. It also advises to realize that most people don't really want truth, and to learn when and how to remove yourself. To ultimately achieve a closer relationship to reality, one should seek calmness, knowledge about themselves, and an understanding of what can be changed and what can't, and be okay with both.
	- •   Learn to judge people by the breadth or narrowness of their vision and seek to surround yourself with those who can understand the consequences of their actions and have a bold vision
	  •   With an elevated perspective, you will have the patience and clarity to achieve almost any goal
	  •   When people's horizon shrink to days or weeks, they lose the ability to see the consequences of their actions and they become manic
	  •   1.  Unintended consequences (have at least one person focus solely on consequences)
	    2.  Tactical hell happens when you can’t back out of everyday battles to get detachment, perspective and the long-term view (strategists will always beat tacticians)
	    3.  Ticker tape syndrome (need to know instantly drives short-termism, avoid the noise as much as possible)
	    4.  Lost in trivia (know what’s most important and spend most of your time on that) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhhsrhw0knphes8e58fpvn))
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature emphasize the importance of keeping an elevated perspective and having a broad vision. It suggests surrounding yourself with those who understand the consequences of their actions and have a bold vision. Tactics should be avoided as they can lead to "tactical hell," and one should focus on the long-term view and avoid getting lost in trivia. Unintended consequences should be kept in mind, and one should focus on what is most important.
	- •   Learn to tame your stubbornly held positions and come to see other's points of views and beliefs. This will open them up, making them more open to your suggestions
	  •   It’s hard to ignore a man who makes you feel good. When you have valuable information and can get things done on top of it, you’re a force
	  •   LBJ knew he had to rein in his more aggressive and bullying qualities in order to win over key allies and learn from them. Having one key ally near the top of the mountain can make a lot of things happen. He never asked for favors but did others favors, if his allies had any interests he would cultivate an interest in that too, he was always willing to help and work hard, knew what others wanted and needed and figured out how to make himself the gate between those things, he made it in other's interest to hand over power to him
	  •   Influence over people is often gained in the opposite way than we imagine. Put the focus on others and make them the stars of the show. Always step back and assume a subtle inferior position. Then do some small favors for them and they’ll begin helping you, expanding your influence. Bring out the cleverness of others and make them feel good when they leave you
	  •   People have a self opinion and it doesn’t matter if it’s accurate. 3 universal traits: I’m autonomous, intelligent, good and decent. These affect everyone’s self opinion and playing into these and validate them make them feel good. Avoid confronting people’s self opinion.
	  •   1.  Be a deep listener and be aware of subtle nonverbal cues
	    2.  Infect people with the proper mood (acceptance of others unconditionally, calm, enthusiastic)
	    3.  Confirm their self opinion (people choose to help you)
	    4.  Use people’s resistance and stubbornness against them (channel their aggressive energy in order to make them fall on their own - use their emotions, their language, their rigidity)
	  •   Praise people for their effort and not their talent ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhjqpdsmf5mxhgweh9q6aa))
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature encourages people to be open-minded and be willing to accept other's points of view. It also highlights the importance of forming alliances to increase influence and power. Additionally, it suggests that people should infect others with a positive mood, confirm their self-opinions, and praise them for their effort rather than their talent in order to build relationships.
	- •   Our attitudes are self fulfilling and paint everything we see, experience, learn and do
	  •   See yourself as an explorer - always curious, open to new things, having weakly held convictions, you are always trying new things and want to learn
	  •   See adversity as opportunities to improve and to get better, not something to be avoided. Understand that you can’t change people - embrace and enjoy who those people are and make the most of it. When you do this people, come to love you, accept you, and see you as a leader ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhkjgg7973qbmgcfzamjrh))
		- **Note**: The laws of human nature suggest that our attitudes shape our experiences and that we should view adversity as a chance to learn and improve, rather than something to be avoided. Additionally, we should accept other people as they are and make the most of the situation, as people will come to love and accept us as a leader.
	- •   Embrace your dark side and integrate it into your personality. You’ll become a more complete and authentic person and radiate that to others - attracting them into your circle and influence
	  •   Depression and anxiety comes from not being aware of your dark side and not letting it shine through in a positive way. By denying that side and repressing it, it only becomes stronger and comes out stronger in ways that you will come to regret
	  •   Most hatred stems from envy and is a way for the subconscious to release some energy
	  •   1.  Become self aware and see the shadow (others can often see your shadow better than you can so ask them for their opinion) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhm5htxc43s2acc0fht0wz))
		- **Note**: This text encourages the reader to be aware of their "dark side" and accept it in order to become a more authentic person. It suggests that repressing this part of oneself can lead to depression and anxiety, and that hatred typically comes from envy. The text suggests that one must become self-aware and see their own "shadow" in order to better understand themselves. It also encourages the reader to ask others for their opinion in order to gain a better understanding of their own shadow.
	- •   You must become a master decoder of envy and those who are predisposed to being envious.
	  •   People are status-seeking animals and constantly monitor their relative position in the hierarchy. People must have an adequate position to be comfortable and happy
	  •   Always emphasize the role of luck in your life. Enhance your flaws in order to make yourself more relatable and to mitigate envy. As you gain power, keep humbling yourself and asking for the opinion of those below you
	  •   Be wary of mass - spread the love, the relationships, and the wealth and you’ll have people pushing for you to rise rather than trying to put you down ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhmnjgxs7f1j9hrb90jj5w))
		- **Tags**: #[[status]]
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature suggest that people are status-seeking animals who monitor their position in the hierarchy. To mitigate envy, one must become a master decoder of envy and make themselves more relatable by emphasizing their flaws. It is also important to spread the love, relationships and wealth in order to have people pushing for success rather than trying to put one down.
	- •   You must be aware of your tendencies towards grandiosity and how important that is for you. If you feel the temptation, you must mitigate this by realizing your weaknesses and how big a role luck has played, becoming more realistic and grounded
	  •   Be aware of your grandiosity needs, concentrate that energy on a particular task or goal, create a dialog with reality and be open to the flaws in your plan, find appropriate challenges which test you but aren’t too much, occasionally let yourself take on huge challenges ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhnc8x3hp8qr7bz75f6t7d))
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature emphasize the importance of being aware of our tendencies towards grandiosity and how to manage them. We should focus our energy on a specific task or goal, create a dialogue with reality, be open to our own flaws, find appropriate challenges, and occasionally take on huge challenges.
	- By blending in the opposite side, what you're most lacking, you’ll become more complete, fluid, whole, and authentic, drawing other people to you as you merge the different sides of your personality.
	  
	  1.  This is a far more effective tactic than trying to become a purer version of what you already have ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhnzr66471yy5a0axswxt2))
		- **Note**: This text suggests that it is better to bring together different aspects of one's personality than to try to become a purer version of what is already present. This can lead to increased authenticity and draw people in.
	- •   We must be open to our internal, primal traits that make us unique. They not only help set us apart and get us on a path towards mastery but also helps the community at large as it fosters diversity and helps spur creativity and innovation in others
	  •   Operating with a high sense of purpose which aligns with who you are and what you want is the force multiplier - allowing you to achieve more and have a more meaningful and impactful life. Discover this sense of purpose and find as many ways to connect with it as possible - this will draw others towards you and open up opportunities that you would have thought impossible
	  •   Discover your calling by going back to your roots, your childhood, the primal inclinations which set you on fire - the things which you got very enthusiastic about and couldn’t stop thinking about. Things which are so fun or easy for you are good signs.
	  •   Surround yourself with as many people as possible with the deep and true sense of purpose. They will help teach you, guide you, energize you, and motivate you
	  •   Have a long term goal but also build in small, shorter term goals which build up to the ultimate goal. This will keep you moving in the right direction and mitigate anxiety
	  •   You must get into deep flow as often as possible in order to progress quickly and in the right direction. It takes a lot of work and is difficult as it takes sacrifice and dedication but is the only way to get there ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhpjcw3dn4yhmv4c0p51xd))
		- **Tags**: #[[purpose]] #[[goals]] #[[relationships]]
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature emphasize the importance of recognizing and embracing our unique internal traits in order to find our sense of purpose and connect with others. It also recommends setting long-term goals and creating shorter-term goals to reach them, as well as working to enter a deep state of flow in order to progress quickly and effectively. Lastly, it suggests surrounding ourselves with people who have a deep and true sense of purpose, as they can help guide and motivate us.
	- •   Develop self awareness and the changes that occur to yourself and others when in a group. One of the greatest threats to our survival thousands of years ago was being ostracized so today fitting in and being accepted in the group is one of our greatest concerns. We fit in by accepting the norm and imitating and following the group. The danger is that we stop thinking for ourselves and simply imitate the group and lose what makes us unique and gives us power
	  •   All people have evolved to see hierarchies and this gets exaggerated in groups. We lose our rationality and go with the herd, often leading to dangerous or poor outcomes
	  •   You must be aware of the effect that groups have on people as individuals and the broader group dynamics - hierarchies can lead to cliques, factions, and power mongering
	  •   In any group you have to understand the culture and the fact that an older company and a bigger group will likely control you rather than you control it. You also have to understand the group dynamic and the hierarchy - who is moving up and down relatively
	  •   You can make factions and cliques less attractive by creating a positive, unifying, and uplifting culture that people can go all in on
	  •   You must understand and be really realistic with yourself and how big of an influence the group has on you. You’re not as much of an individual thinker as you think you are. You must be able to detach yourself from the group and be a realist - this is more important today than ever
	  •   Bad culture drags everyone down. You can’t focus I’m trying to improve individuals - you have to fix the dynamic. Improving the culture this will lift everyone up. When the group can face reality head on and kick-ass, that is when you have a great culture. Instill a collective sense of purpose (no matter what field, quality and excellence are key factors - money and success are byproducts). This higher purpose is rare to come by so people will go all-in and police themselves when they find it. Assemble the right team of lieutenants (avoid the petty details which cause confusion, competence and character are vital, know their roles and make sure they have complimentary skills, you must treat people equally, get rid of those who don’t fit the mold, and lead from the front), let information and ideas flow freely (frank and diversified information, open communication, transparency on how decisions were made), infect the group with productive emotions (lack of fear, courage, calm, openness to new ideas), forge a battle-tested group (group who rises in tough times and doesn’t wilt)
	  •   A group willing to face reality with a great culture help rise people up, it is one of people’s most memorable experiences to be part of a group like this. It is our duty as enlightened humans to create as many such groups as possible, making society healthier in the process ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhr9rb7zpd7sbqfxt4p191))
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature encourages developing self-awareness and understanding the changes that occur when in a group. It warns against following the group without thinking for oneself, as well as the dangers of hierarchies and cliques. It suggests creating a positive, unifying culture and being realistic about the influence of the group. It also emphasizes the importance of creating a collective sense of purpose, assembling the right team, letting information and ideas flow freely, and infecting the group with productive emotions. Finally, it encourages creating as many such groups as possible, to make society healthier.
	- •   1.  People are always ambivalent about powers and leaders. Authority is the delicate art of wielding power while making people feel like you are working for them
	    2.  As the leader you have to embody and practice all the traits that you would want in a leader. You must work hard, lead from the front, be fair, be consistent, courageous, wise, and calm and difficult situations
	    3.  As a leader be very aware of how fickle people are and how history is riddled with examples of great leaders who start showing some signs of weakness, arrogance, or whatever else which leads their people to turn on them and sometimes put them to death or ostracize them
	    4.  The fundamental role of the leader is to provide a far reaching vision to unite the group. We must avoid seeming petty and our focus needs to be on others, on the culture, and the vision.
	    5.  Toughness and empathy are the twins pillars of leadership. They are not mutually exclusive but inextricably bound. You must have both or people will begin to lose faith in you as a leader
	    6.  You must be a consummate observer of people and these traits of leadership and hierarchy, coming to embody and practice them consistently in all situations
	    7.  Most people run away from the dangers and responsibilities of leadership but you must embrace it. This skill is increasingly rare in today’s world so the more you can run towards it, the more you’ll stand out. The essence of leadership is that when people willingly follow, you will not need force, rah rah speeches or to punish people. Your leadership style most authentically arise out of your personality and character you can be authentic, a founder, the deliverer, a visionary artist, healer, pragmatist, etc - but it must be natural for you
	    8.  Turn your focus outwards so that you’re always looking to help others and then you work to earn people's respect - never assuming it will be given to you. What drives you is bringing the greatest meaning and utility to the largest group - never on your ego or selfish desires.
	    9.  Having a vision allows you to work backwards from the future to the present and determine the steps that you need to take in order to get there.
	    10.  You have to lead from the front and show early that you’re tough. Have high standards for your own work and if there are sacrifices to be made, you have to be the first to make them, and they can’t simply be symbolic. If you take things away, make it known that it is only temporary. Be in a position where you can be generous
	    11.  Finally, we like to focus on the psychological health of individuals, and how perhaps a therapist could fix any problems they might have. What we don't consider, however, is that being in a dysfunctional group can actually make individuals unstable and neurotic. The opposite is true as well: by participating in a high-functioning reality group, we can make ourselves healthy and whole. Such experiences are memorable and life-changing. We learn the value of cooperating on a higher level, of seeing our fate as intertwined with those around us. We develop greater empathy. We gain confidence in our own abilities, which such a group rewards. We feel connected to reality. We are brought into the upward pull of the group, realizing our social nature on the high level it was intended for. It is our duty as enlightened humans to create as many such groups as possible, making society healthier in the process. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhsjgkcwptj2jjyvcmy39a))
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature outlines the importance of being a strong, fair, and consistent leader in order to gain the respect of those you lead. It emphasizes the need for leaders to embody traits such as hard work, courage, and wisdom, while also being aware of how fickle people can be. A leader must have a vision to unite the group and focus on providing the greatest meaning and utility to the largest group. They must lead from the front, show toughness, and be generous. Finally, it is important to create high-functioning groups where individuals can learn to cooperate, empathize, and gain confidence.
	- John D Rockefeller is the role model and story for this. He would use his will to outdo, outthink and outwork his opponents. Hostility is within every human and don’t be fooled to think anyone is too nice. Rid yourself of the denial that this doesn’t exist in people. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhte8ecb8kp4x766kp6d27))
		- **Note**: John D Rockefeller is presented as a role model in this document, and it is suggested that people should use their will to outdo, outthink, and outwork their opponents. It is also suggested that people should not be fooled into thinking that everyone is too nice, as hostility is a natural part of the human condition and should not be denied.
	- •   Transitions can be seen over decades and seem to be universal across time and indicate that they are bigger than any one generation. It is part of human nature the pendulum swings in the trends follow
	  •   We must develop generational awareness understanding how our own generation impact our thinking in view of the world and have generations overall impact people across time
	  •   You must understand and honor how much the time period and generation you were born into affects you. For example, millennials care more about teamwork than individualism, and security rather than risk because of the financial crisis. If you can define the zeitgeist for each generation, you will better understand the people within it and how to work and get along with them. Taking different perspectives will help your creativity and calm you. Once you have a sense for the zeitgeist, look back in history and find a parallel. Associate yourself with heroes of the past
	  •   Always work with the spirit and don’t critique or try to change it. Always evolve and adapt, don’t become a caricature of the past. Modernize your spirit, adopting your experience and perspective with some of the traits of the younger you agree with
	  •   You must develop deep relationships with people from various generations ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhva8qfwkwgfarnynctb60))
		- **Note**: The Laws of Human Nature suggest that we must be aware of and understand the impact of the different generations we are born into and how they shape our thinking. We should take different perspectives and look to history for parallels, and always strive to modernize our spirit, rather than becoming a caricature of the past. We should also develop deep relationships with people from various generations to foster understanding.
	- •   Realize that life is short, that most people are terrified of death and have not confronted that within themselves.
	  •   If you live everyday, there is more than enough time ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmhw2p9k18gje31a06seke0))
		- **Tags**: #[[dealth]] #[[decision making]] #[[death]] #[[fear]]
		- **Note**: This document emphasizes the importance of living life to the fullest, while also recognizing that people are often afraid of death and have not faced their own mortality. It suggests that even with a short life, there is always enough time to make the most of it.