title:: The Messy Middle: Finding Your Way Through the Hardest and Most Crucial Part of Any Bold Venture (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Messy Middle: Finding Your Way Through the Hardest and Most Crucial Part of Any Bold Venture"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-messy-middle/
document_note:: This document provides insight into how to navigate the "messy middle" of any bold venture. The key takeaways are to pay less attention to the day-to-day incremental advances and more on achieving an overall positive slope, celebrate any wins, such as gaining a new customer or solving a problem, and emphasize the internal brand and message. Additionally, it encourages leaders to take initiative, be patient, celebrate persistence, and optimize the first 30 seconds of the product experience. Finally, the document emphasizes the importance of relationships and understanding the full portion of a project.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- One of the greatest motivators is a sign of progress. Hardship is easier to tolerate when your work is being recognized (either through external validation or financial rewards), but long journeys don’t show progress in the traditional sense. When you have no customers, no audience, and nobody knows or cares to know about what you’re making, the greatest motivators have to be manufactured. Rather than fight the need for short-term rewards, you must hack your reward system to provide them. As you craft your team’s culture, lower the bar for how you define a “win.” Celebrate anything you can, from gaining a new customer to solving a particularly vexing problem. What should you celebrate? Progress and impact. As your team takes action and works their way down the list of things to do, it is often hard for them to feel the granularity of their progress and you need to compensate. Celebrate the moments when aggressive deadlines are met or beaten. Pop champagne when the work you’ve done makes a real impact.
	  
	  1.  Give your team the gratification of seeing their progress rather than just moving on. At Behance, we had “Done Walls” that were decorated with a collage of completed project plans, checklists, and sketches that literally surrounded us with the sensation of progress. And whenever I’m presenting a forward vision presentation to my team, I try to start with a few slides recapping what the team has already accomplished. Progress is the best motivator of future progress, but it must be merchandised sufficiently so that people feel it. While ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw8wx25aqh7wq03cmpxprey))
		- **Note**: The best way to keep going when it's hard is to notice when you're making progress and to celebrate it. When you don't have many customers or people who know about your work, you have to make your own rewards. Anything can be a win, even if it's just getting a new customer or figuring out a difficult problem. Celebrate the moments when you meet deadlines or do something that has a real impact. Give your team the satisfaction of seeing what they have accomplished, so that it motivates them to continue. Have a "Done Wall" with pictures of things you have completed, or start a presentation by showing what you have already achieved. Recognizing progress is the best way to keep making progress, but you have to make sure that people can see and feel it.
	- As a leader, you can’t always provide answers. And you shouldn’t, as the correct solution may still be premature. But what you can do is always add energy. This ability to turn negative conversations into positive ones is a trait I’ve always admired. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw8y7wnxm0ch46p917tkn3g))
		- **Tags**: #[[leadership]]
	- **The easy path will only take you to a crowded place.** Be wary of the path of least resistance. It may look compelling in the short term but often proves less differentiating and defensible in the long term. Shortcuts tend to be less gratifying over time. The long game is the most difficult one to play and the most bountiful one to win.
	  
	  1.  The best way for a start-up to “disrupt” an industry is to be a thesis-driven outsider—someone who hasn’t been jaded by the industry but has a strong opinion for what should change. You then just have to stay alive long enough to become an expert so you can compete with the different skills and practices you bring. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw8ymcrvm63e2dbfyqxvf06))
		- **Note**: The easy path is usually very popular, but it usually won't bring you success in the long-term. Taking shortcuts won't help you in the end. It takes more effort and hard work to reach success in the long-term. A start-up company can make a big difference in an industry if they think differently and have strong opinions about what needs to be changed. They need to stay focused and learn a lot about the industry to be able to compete with the already established companies.
	- Great teams are more than the assembly of great people. On the contrary, great teams are ultimately grown, not gathered. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw8zj24tztwbyxerwjm0zcp))
	- You can always get more resources, but resourcefulness is a competitive advantage. Resources become depleted. Resourcefulness does not. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw8zpd1fvqptb2tcy305fxt))
	- Perhaps one of the most important unspoken roles of a leader through the messy middle of a project is that of internal marketer. For all the emphasis around obsessing over your customers and your public brand and message, there is surprisingly little focus on the internal brand and message. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw903yt62yxd5599c16zwcr))
	- Networks are served, not led ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw90nftpxczcq4960dzbakv))
	- The science of business is scaling; the art of business is the things that don’t. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw92e0cng73n19jmbjb9trx))
	- There are two ways to build a network and source signal: growing surface area or going deep. In the beginning of your career, optimize for surface area. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw9156n80w9y9xxkdv4dp4z))
	- The busier and more ambitious we get, the more protective and intentional we become of our time—but sometimes it’s too much. Ambition shouldn’t override opportunity. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw91bmn7dnnp522v2d2kcs8))
	- One of my favorite sayings from ancient times is “Wealth is ultimately feeling like you got your full portion.” When I finish a project, I aspire to feel full. And when I lay dying, I hope to look back on what I would consider a full life. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw91kd4sjvxtn6xw9e56jdw))
		- **Note**: Wealth is a feeling 🙏
		  Full portion of life fulfilled 💯
		  Look back with no regrets 🤝