title:: The Innovator’s Solution: Creating and Sustaining Successful Growth (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Innovator’s Solution: Creating and Sustaining Successful Growth"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-innovators-solution/
document_note:: This document provides insight into the structures and conditions needed for successful growth. It outlines the need to target customers who are trying to get a job done, target low-end disruption, segment the market, be impatient for profit and patient for growth, and never copy or target attractive customers to competitors. Senior executives have three jobs when it comes to disruptive growth: managing resources, creating a disruptive growth engine, and sensing when circumstances are changing. The document also emphasizes the importance of following the Law of Conservation of Attractive Profits and relying on emergent strategy when the future is hard to read.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- The structures and initial conditions that are required for successful growth are enumerated in the chapters in this book. They include starting with a cost structure in which attractive profits can be earned at low price points and which can then be carried up market; being in a disruptive position relative to competitors so that they are motivated to flee rather than fight; starting with a set of customers who had been nonconsumers so that they are pleased with modest products; targeting a job that customers are trying to get done; skating to where the money will be, not to where it was; assigning managers who have taken the right courses in the school of experience and putting them to work within processes and organizational values that are attuned to what needs to be done; having the flexibility to respond as a viable strategy emerges; and starting with capital that can be patient for growth. If you start in conditions such as these, you do not need to see deeply into the future. Attractive choices that lead to success will present themselves. It is when you start in conditions that are opposite to these that attractive options may not appear, and the right choices will be difficult to make ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsrhp00mjgdj2j7z7n8nzebt))
		- **Note**: The document talks about what is needed for a business to grow and be successful. This includes having a cost structure that allows you to make a profit even when you sell at low prices, and then increase prices as the business grows; being different from the competitors so that they don't want to fight you; finding customers who have never used anything like your product before; understanding what customers need and want; making sure managers have had the right experiences and are working within the right processes; being ready to change when needed; and having the resources to wait for growth. If you have all of these things, it should be easier to make the decisions you need to grow your business.
	- Never copy others. One of the most valuable contributions you can make is to keep watching for changes in circumstances. If you do this, you can understand when and why changes need to be made long before the evidence is clear to those whose vision is not clarified by theory. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsrhpkk65pmkvjkwpznbwa3v))
	- Never try to change the behavior or process of the customer ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsrhpy1a4m5x489st3f5bfxz))
	- Segment the market in ways that mirror the jobs that customers are trying to get done ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsrhq8ysy8tja9r5xwpy5p6q))
		- **Tags**: #[[jtbd]]
	- Executives must answer 3 sets of questions to determine whether an idea has disruptive potential
	  
	  1.  **Is there a large population of people who have not had the money, equipment, or skill to do this thing for themselves, and as a result have gone without it altogether or have needed to pay someone with more expertise to do it for them?**
	  2.  **To use the product or service, do customers need to go to an inconvenient, centralized location?**
	  3.  **Are there customers at the low end of the market who would be happy to purchase a product with less (but good enough) performance if they could get it at a lower price?**
	  4.  **Can we create a business model that enables us to earn attractive profits at the discount prices required to win the business of these overserved customers as the low-end?**
	  5.  **Is the innovation disruptive to all of the significant incumbents in the industry? If it appears to be sustaining to one or more significant players in the industry, then the odds will be stacked in that firm's favor, and the entrant is unlikely to win** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsrhng3pnas4raegwgqh2b0k))
		- **Note**: The executive must ask five key questions to determine whether an idea has disruptive potential: 1) Is there a population that have not had the resources to do it? 2) Do customers need to go to an inconvenient, centralized location? 3) Are there customers at the low end of the market who would be happy to purchase a product with less performance? 4) Can a business model be created that allows for profits at discount prices? 5) Is the innovation disruptive to all significant incumbents in the industry? Answers to these questions will help to determine the viability of the idea.
	- Disruption causes others to be disinterested in what you are doing. This is exactly what you want with competitors: you want them to ignore you. But offering something that is disruptively unattractive to your customers - which includes all of the downstream entities that compose your channel - spells disaster. Companies in your channel are customers with a job to get done, which is to grow profitably ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsrj9x3pypv3vpbpesk2rvzw))
	- Core competence, as it is used by many managers, is a dangerously inward-looking notion. Competitiveness is far more about doing what customers value than doing what you think you're good at. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsrja3zwcjeh84ta9etk534e))
	- The Law of conservation of attractive profits states that in the value chain there is a requisite juxtaposition of modular and interdependent architectures, and of reciprocal processes of commoditization and decommoditization, that exists in order to optimize the performance of what is not good enough. The law states that when modularity and commoditization cause attractive profits to disappear at one stage in the value chain, the opportunity to earn attractive profits with proprietary products will usually emerge at an adjacent stage. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsrja74r2sxn28sd8asyxm4y))
		- **Note**: The Law of Conservation of Attractive Profits means that in the way things are made, different parts have to fit together and be connected in the right way. It also means that when one part of the way things are made (called commoditization) is not making enough money, then there will usually be a way to make money with something nearby.