title:: The Wit and Wisdom of Lee Kuan Yew (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Wit and Wisdom of Lee Kuan Yew"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-wit-and-wisdom-of-lky/
document_note:: Lee Kuan Yew's wit and wisdom encompasses a wide range of topics, from the need for cooperation and competition to the importance of family and the necessity of discipline and efficiency. He emphasizes the importance of education and the arts, the need to remain relevant to the world, and the necessity of making unpopular decisions. He also speaks of his appreciation for the migrant spirit and the need to help the less successful. He also speaks of the need to draw out younger leaders to replace traditional community leaders, and the importance of good governance and pragmatism. Finally, he speaks of the need to preserve Asian values in order to contain the drug problem and ensure societal regeneration.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- It is not the individual performance that counts. Of this, I’m quite certain. You can have a great leader, you know. If the herd hasn’t got it in it, you can’t make the grade. The herd must have the capacity, the stamina, sufficient social cohesiveness to survive. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq79b6qsbehnf8cth4dz0sc))
		- **Note**: Lee Kuan Yew emphasizes that individual performance is not the most important factor in success. Instead, it is the collective strength and cohesiveness of a group that determines how successful they can be, even with a great leader.
	- One of the by-products of a migrant community is that it produces a population of triers. Whatever else they may lack, the offsprings of migrants are prepared to try anything to improve themselves. Having left tradition, their history, their past behind, they have only the future to go in quest of. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq79ss57hy6a41bx2mm5801))
		- **Note**: Lee Kuan Yew observed that the offspring of migrants are driven to improve their lives and strive for a better future, as they have left their traditions and past behind.
	- If you want to be popular, do not try to be popular all the time. Popular government does not mean that you do popular things all the time. We do not want to be unpopular or to do unpopular things. But when they are necessary, they will be done. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7a92jv50kg311vj07whz9))
	- One of the reasons why Singapore thrived was because so many of the merchants, both British and non-British, when they gave their word, they kept to it, and the government when it gave its undertaking, invariably honoured it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7av6tyc172xw1tk9cvb3x))
	- When people get equal handouts, whether or not they work harder or better, everybody then works less hard. The country must go down. It is when people are encouraged to excel by being able to keep a large part of the extra reward earned by their extra efforts that the society as a whole becomes wealthier and everyone thrives and prospers. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7b7ds8j7v57ap00g8ebjz))
	- Even in the capitalist West where they have tried throwing money at problems, what is the end result? You go down New York, Broadway. You will see the beggars, people on the streets. Worse than in the 1950s and in the early ’60s before the Great Society programmes. Why? Why did it get worse after compassion moved a President, motivated with a great vision of a society which was wealthy and cared for, could look after everybody – the blacks, the minorities, the dispossessed, the disadvantaged. There is more unhappiness and more hardship today and more beggars, more muggers. Why is that? Have we not learnt? **Where are the beggars in Singapore? Show me. I take pride in that. Has anybody died of starvation? Anybody without a home left to die in the streets and have to be collected as dead corpses? Because we came to the realistic conclusion that the human being is motivated by instincts that go deep down into the basic genes of life. And the first basic instinct is to protect yourself, and stronger than that, to protect your offspring so that there is the next generation. You kill that link, you have killed off mankind.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7bfq0tez06h7x8a9csees))
		- **Note**: Even in the West, where they spend a lot of money to fix problems, it's not working. In places like New York City, there are more beggars and people living on the streets than there were years ago. Even though people wanted to help those people, it's not helping. There are more people who are unhappy, more people who are poor, and more people who are dangerous. But in Singapore, you don't see this. There are no beggars and no one has ever died from not having enough food or a place to live. This is because people need to look out for themselves and their families and protect them so that future generations will be taken care of. If we don't take care of each other, we will all die.
	- **Performance in examinations depends upon two factors: nature and nurture – nature being the natural intelligence of the child, nurture being the training and education. Or to use computer language, it depends on hardware and software, the hardware is the size or capacity of the computer, and the software is the teaching or educational programme. What weightings are allotted to hardware as against software, or nature against nurture, is a matter of deep controversy between the experts, the psychologists and doctors. The fact is, individuals are born with different capacities. What we must set out to do, therefore, is to help students achieve the maximum potential of whatever nature has endowed them with. In other words, to nurture them, to give them the software, to encourage, support and help them to achieve their fullest.**
	  
	  1.  *I had never thought of nature/nurture through this analogy and find it intriguing* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7d629ep6af0p1dzd0vg9e))
		- **Note**: Lee Kuan Yew is saying that doing well in tests depends on both nature (the natural intelligence of the child) and nurture (the training and education they have received). He compares this to a computer, where the "hardware" is the size or capacity of the computer, and the "software" is the teaching or educational program. The experts, psychologists, and doctors have different opinions about how much nature and nurture should be weighed when deciding how well a student does in tests. Lee Kuan Yew believes that it's important to help students reach their full potential, no matter what natural abilities they have. This means giving them the right training and education, encouraging them, and supporting them to do their best.