title:: The Soul of a New Machine (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Soul of a New Machine"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-soul-of-a-new-machine/
document_note:: The text is a detailed account of the development of the Soul of a New Machine by IBM, and the incredible leadership of its head, West. West was able to inspire his team to produce a major CPU to rival North Carolina's and created a "crazy environment" that allowed him to do it in any way he wanted. It is clear that West was a great leader, one who knew how to motivate his team with tasks and trust them to do the job well, and to take risks and think outside the box. He also made sure that the team was recognized for their hard work and accomplishments. The text also highlights the importance of understanding the entire system, not just the parts that one has designed, and the importance of avoiding programming by rote.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- Where did the risks lie? Where could a company go badly wrong? In many cases, a small and daily growing computer company did not fall on hard times because people suddenly stopped wanting to buy its products. On the contrary, a company was more likely to asphyxiate on its own success. Demand for its products would be soaring, and the owners would be drawing up optimistic five-year plans, when all of a sudden something would go wrong with their system of production. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp01p8swc1jh396xbe0k9q4))
		- **Note**: This document discusses the risks faced by small and growing computer companies, which are often caused by their own success. Companies can become overwhelmed by their own success when demand for their products rises, leading to problems with their production systems.
	- You did not have to be the first company to produce the new kind of machine; sometimes, in fact, it was better not to be the first. But you had to produce yours before the new market really opened up and customers had made other marriages. For once they are lost, both old and prospective customers are often gone for good. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp028peepwtykw1qdw73wxk))
		- **Note**: This document explains that it is important to be one of the first companies to produce a new kind of machine before the market opens up and customers have made other commitments. If a company is not among the first, it may miss out on both old and prospective customers.
	- **Software compatibility is a marvelous thing. That was the essential lesson West took away from his long talks with his friend in Marketing. You didn’t want to make a machine that wasn’t compatible, not if you could avoid it. Old customers would feel that since they’d need to buy and create all new software anyway, they might as well look at what other companies had to offer, they’d be likely to undertake the dreaded “market survey.”** And an incompatible machine would not make it easy for new customers to buy both 16-bit Eclipses and the new machine. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp02kw36ccbv8yrwnpcfv8d))
		- **Note**: This text discusses the importance of software compatibility and how it affects customers. The author's message is that if a company wants to retain existing customers and attract new ones, they must ensure their product is compatible with existing software so that customers don't have to buy and create all new software.
	- **West invented the term, not the practice—was “signing up.” By signing up for the project you agreed to do whatever was necessary for success. You agreed to forsake, if necessary, family, hobbies, and friends—if you had any of these left (and you might not if you had signed up too many times before).** From a manager’s point of view, the practical virtues of the ritual were manifold. Labor was no longer coerced. Labor volunteered. When you signed up you in effect declared, “I want to do this job and I’ll give it my heart and soul.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp64pa4ntvk7dh943x6vdxw))
		- **Note**: The practice of "signing up" was a ritual created by West which allowed workers to volunteer to work on a project and agree to do whatever was necessary to ensure its success, even if it meant sacrificing family, hobbies and friends. This allowed managers to have volunteers that were willing to give their heart and soul to the job.
	- there’s no such thing as a perfect design. Most experienced computer engineers I talked to agreed that absorbing this simple lesson constitutes the first step in learning how to get machines out the door. Often, they said, it is the most talented engineers who have the hardest time learning when to stop striving for perfection. West was the voice from the cave, supplying that information: “Okay. It’s right. Ship it.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp65vk69t0xd7rch8navv8w))
	- “It doesn’t matter how hard you work on something,” says Holberger. “What counts is finishing and having it work.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsp669cp9vjbft8r0p7bdym4))
		- **Note**: Finishing the task 🤔
		  Matters more than hard work 💪
		  For it to work well 🤝