title:: The Story of Philosophy (highlights)
author:: [[wikipedia.org]]
full-title:: "The Story of Philosophy"
category:: #articles
url:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Story_of_Philosophy
tags:: #[[books]] #[[philosophy]] #[[@will-durant]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 17th, 2023]]
	- ***The Story of Philosophy: The Lives and Opinions of the Greater Philosophers*** is a 1926 book by [Will Durant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Will_Durant), in which he profiles several prominent [Western philosophers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_philosophy) and their ideas, beginning with [Socrates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socrates) and [Plato](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plato) and on through [Friedrich Nietzsche](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friedrich_Nietzsche). ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gpz40qw1n37wwhaqf1a1etf9))
- New highlights added [[Jan 17th, 2023]] at 8:45 PM
	- a guide to excellence, which may save many detours and delays: it is the middle way, the golden mean ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gpzg4htrk41w1pkh9z8k6hfx))
- New highlights added [[Feb 5th, 2023]] at 10:16 AM
	- There are three pivotal terms in Spinoza’s system: substance, attribute, and mode. Attribute we put aside temporarily, for simplicity’s sake. A mode is any individual thing or event, any particular form or shape, which reality transiently assumes; you, your body, your thoughts, your group, your species, your planet, are modes; all these are forms, modes, almost literally fashions, of some eternal and invariable reality lying behind and beneath them. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grfava4scksqg38kqa6bc71b))
		- **Tags**: #[[@spinoza]]
	- What is this underlying reality? Spinoza calls it substance, as literally that which stands beneath ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grfawg43rct0tmmz955t45sb))
		- **Tags**: #[[substance]] #[[@spinoza]]
	- But further Spinoza identifies substance with nature and God. After the manner of the Scholastics, he conceives nature under a double aspect: as active and vital process, which Spinoza calls natura naturans—nature begetting, the élan vital and creative evolution of Bergson; and as the passive product of this process, natura naturata—nature begotten, the material and contents of nature, its woods and winds and waters, its hills and fields and myriad external forms. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grfaxny0h2bpvep6zxmnrck9))
		- **Tags**: #[[nature]] #[[@spinoza]] #[[god]]
	- Neither is mind material, answers Spinoza, nor is matter mental; neither is the brain-process the cause, nor is it the effect, of thought; nor are the two processes independent and parallel. For there are not two processes, and there are not two entities; there is but one process, seen now inwardly as thought, and now outwardly as motion; there is but one entity, seen now inwardly as mind, now outwardly as matter, but in reality an inextricable mixture and unity of both. Mind and body do not act upon each other, because they are not other, they are one. “The body cannot determine the mind to think; nor the mind determine the body to remain in motion or at rest, or in any other state,” for the simple reason that “the decision of the mind, and the desire and determination of the body . . . are one and the same thing.”[55](#ich04fn55) And all the world is unifiedly double in this way; wherever there is an external “material” process, it is but one side or aspect of the real process, which to a fuller view would be seen to include as well an internal process correlative, in however different a degree, with the mental process which we see within ourselves. The inward and “mental” process corresponds at every stage with the external and “material” process; “the order and connection of ideas is the same as the order and connection of things.”[56](#ich04fn56) “Thinking substance and extended substance are one and the same thing, comprehended now through this, now through that, attribute” or aspect. “Certain of the Jews seem to have perceived this, though confusedly, for they said that God and his intellect, and the things conceived by his intellect, were one and the same thing.”[57](#ich04fn57) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01grfb3eksmpewa8qfzg8t4mdd))
		- **Tags**: #[[mind]] #[[@spinoza]]
- New highlights added [[Feb 18th, 2023]] at 10:00 AM
	- [Friedrich Nietzsche](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friedrich_Nietzsche)
	  
	  1.  Key ideas, topics and beliefs include perspectivism, the will to power, master-slave morality, the death of God, the Ubermensch, eternal recurrence, life-affirmation, atheism
	  2.  Morality lies not in kindness, but in strength and the goal of human effort should be not the elevation of all but the development of finer and stronger individuals ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgpta65djq2kwnkye8h2gpa))
		- **Tags**: #[[@nietzsche]]
		- **Note**: Friedrich Nietzsche was a philosopher who had some very specific ideas, topics and beliefs. He thought that it was not important to be kind, but it was important to be strong and that the goal of all people should be to become better and stronger.
	- [Henri Bergson](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henri_Bergson)
	  
	  1.  The processes of immediate experience are more significant than abstract rationalism and science for understanding reality ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgqgh9zmegsq2wctvxmb3j3))
		- **Note**: Henri Bergson was a philosopher who believed that the processes of immediate experience were more important than abstract rationalism and science for understanding reality.
	- [Benedetto Croce](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benedetto_Croce)
	  
	  1.  Mind is the primary and ultimate reality (against materialism)
	  2.  Rejects religion and believes in the freedom of will, but not the immortality of the soul
	  3.  Man is an artist as soon as he imagines and long before he reasons
	  4.  What is beauty? Croce says it is the the mental formation of an image (or series of images) that catches the essence of the thing perceived. The beauty belongs to the inward image rather than the outward form in which it is embodied. Beauty is expression. There is nothing in the world except beauty
	  5.  Croce is not known for his clarity or practicality ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgqfgryxd64pv3axv3syn88))
		- **Note**: Benedetto Croce was a philosopher who argued that mind is the primary and ultimate reality, rejecting religion and believing in the freedom of will but not in the immortality of the soul. He believed that man is an artist from the point of imagination and before reasoning, and that beauty is the mental formation of an image or series of images that captures the essence of the thing perceived. Croce is known for his abstract ideas, but not for his clarity or practicality.
	- [Bertrand Russell](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bertrand_Russell)
	  
	  1.  One of the founders of analytic philosophy and one of the premier logicians with influence over AI, cognitive science, computer science, metaphysics, etc.
	  2.  After WWI, Russell changed tremendously and showed the world his amazing [[courage]] and love for humanity
	  3.  Believed that the interest of the empire were not worth the millions of lives it was claiming. The cause was private property and the solution communism ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgpvfwy3ebwm5gmbwdxms6f))
		- **Tags**: #[[@bertrand-russell]]
		- **Note**: Bertrand Russell was a very important thinker. He was one of the first people to think about Artificial Intelligence (AI), science, math, and other things. After World War I, he changed his mind about some things and showed the world how brave he was. He thought that the interests of empires, like countries, were not worth the lives that were lost in wars. He thought the problem was too much private property and the best way to fix it was communism.
	- [George Santayana](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Santayana)
	  
	  1.  Born in Spain but spent much of his life in the US - much of his European style came through in his writing
	  2.  Known for his letters and sayings such as "Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it"
	  3.  Was a naturalist - did not believe in supernatural beings or ghosts ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgq7njxkgvqz9zej68d3hn6))
		- **Note**: George Santayana was a Spanish-born American philosopher known for his letters and sayings, such as "Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it". He was a naturalist, meaning he did not believe in supernatural beings or ghosts, and his European style of writing was evident in his work.
	- [William James](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_James)
	  
	  1.  One of the most influential psychologists ever to come out of the US
	  2.  One of the founders of pragmatism (thought is a product of the interaction between organism and environment) and functional psychology
	  3.  Developed radical empiricism - need to take into account both the physical object and the meaning, values and intentionality that can also be associated with that object ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgq9192dvdadsjgbtrfxf8r))
		- **Note**: William James was one of the most influential American psychologists of all time. He was one of the founders of pragmatism, which holds that thought is a product of the interaction between organism and environment, and functional psychology. He also developed radical empiricism, which states that we must consider both the physical object and the associated meaning, values and intentionality when approaching it.
	- [John Dewey](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Dewey)
	  
	  1.  The other founder of functional psychology
	  2.  Pushed for progressive education and liberalism
	  3.  Best known for his papers on education and his deep belief in democracy
	  4.  Growth is the finest of all things. Perfection is not a final goal but the ever-enduring process of perfecting, maturing, refining is the aim in living. The bad man is the man who, no matter how good he has been, is beginning to deteriorate, to grow less good. The good man is the man who, no matter how morally unworthy he has been, is moving to become better. Goodness without ability is lame; and all virtue in the world will not save us if we lack intelligence. Ignorance is not bliss, it is unconsciousness and slavery... ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgqhygad4snezj1615etmr2))
		- **Note**: John Dewey was a founder of functional psychology and was a prominent advocate for progressive education and liberalism. He is best known for his papers on education and his strong belief in democracy. He believed that growth was the finest of all things, and that perfection was an ever-enduring process of perfecting, maturing and refining. He believed that true goodness was not only a matter of virtue, but also of intelligence and ability, and that ignorance was not bliss, but unconsciousness and slavery.
	- Speaks of specialization and how "as men learned more about the world, they found themselves ever less capable of expressing to their educated fellow-men what it was they had learned...In the midst of unprecedented learning popular ignorance flourished...The common man found himself forced to choose between a scientific priesthood mumbling unintelligible pessimism and a theological priesthood mumbling incredible hopes." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgqksp3ffetwmfmjf808hep))
		- **Note**: As people learned more about the world, it became harder for them to explain what they had learned to other people who were also educated. Even though people were learning more than ever before, most people still did not understand what they were learning. The ordinary person had to decide whether to listen to the scientific people who were saying confusing things that sounded negative or to the religious people who were saying things that sounded impossible.
	- Truth will not make us rich but it will make us free ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgqwk3evfjtkqy35vewqe0g))
		- **Tags**: #[[truth]]
	- Science gives us knowledge, but only philosophy can give us wisdom ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgqxa2qp7h4vtajmfa6sb1d))
		- **Tags**: #[[science]] #[[wisdom]] #[[philosophy]]
	- •   **Philosophy includes five fields of study and discourse - logic, esthetics, ethics, politics and metaphysics**
	  •   •   Logic - study of the ideal method in thought and research; observation and introspection, deduction and induction, hypothesis and experiment, analysis and synthesis
	    •   Esthetics - the study of ideal form or beauty, the philosophy of art
	    •   Ethics - the study of ideal conduct; the highest knowledge is the knowledge of good and evil
	    •   Politics - the study of ideal social organization
	    •   Metaphysics - the study of the "ultimate reality" of all things; matter (ontology), mind (philosophical psychology) and the interrelation of mind and matter in the process of perception and knowledge (epistemology) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgqyrm155pas2pdsph8a057))
		- **Note**: The Story of Philosophy discusses five fields of study and discourse within philosophy - logic, esthetics, ethics, politics, and metaphysics. Logic is the study of the ideal method in thought and research, while esthetics studies the philosophy of art through examining ideal form or beauty. Ethics focuses on the study of ideal conduct, and politics focuses on the study of ideal social organization. Lastly, metaphysics looks at the "ultimate reality" of all things, including matter (ontology), mind (philosophical psychology) and the interrelation of mind and matter in the process of perception and knowledge (epistemology).
	- "One thing only I know, and that is that I know nothing." - Socrates ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgrens40f6bma90zqkxxwg7))
	- According to Plato, just is a relation among individuals, depending on social organization; and that in consequence it can be studied better as part of the structure of a community than as a quality of personal conduct ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsk7nagpfwfwvxnsvpyd2c))
		- **Note**: According to Plato, justice is how people treat each other in a society, and it is easier to understand when we look at the way the whole society is organized, rather than looking at how each person behaves.
	- Appeals for a democratic aristocracy - all men given same universal education and opportunity to rise through the ranks ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsmfdbggpfkcx0h0p2fkym))
	- The philosopher kings should have no possessions beyond what is absolutely necessary, given a set pay to cover expenses but no more, have common meals and live together and their sole reward honor and a sense of service to the group ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsmm85g33xxv6j37bbq9qf))
	- •   **Only three things worthwhile in this world - justice, beauty and truth**
	  •   •   Plato defines justice as "having and doing what is one's own"
	    •   •   **Each man will perform the function for which he is best suited and shall receive the equivalent of what he produces**
	        •   When men are out of their natural places, coordination is destroyed and society disintegrates. **Justice is effective coordination**
	    •   "Truth changes her garments frequently, but under the new habit she remains always the same"
	    •   **Morality is the harmony of the whole** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsp13wyk7wp24pyeztsnfx))
		- **Note**: According to Plato, the three most important things in the world are justice, beauty, and truth. He defines justice as each person doing what they are best suited for and receiving what they produce. He further states that justice is effective coordination and that morality is the harmony of the whole. He also notes that truth remains the same, even if it changes its form.
	- There is no design. The universe is a machine ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsqfcmkkmfv96b622t414d))
	- Aristotle had many errors in his observations and thinking but also some of the widest ranging in all of history - from identifying monkeys and man to be of the same group, birds and reptiles having very similar biological structures, etc. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsqrtm7n36j2gmzfy6scqn))
	- Free will is a corollary of [[consciousness]]; to say that we are free is merely to mean that we know what we are doing ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsg9kpe7ammag9527z8s4f))
		- **Tags**: #[[free will]] #[[consciousness]]
		- **Note**: "Free will means that we have the power to make our own choices because we know what we are doing."
	- •   One of his major works is *Creative Evolution.* Life is more than its machinery; it is a power that can grow, that can restore itself, that can mold to its own will some measure of environing circumstance. Life is that which makes efforts, which pushes upwards and outwards and on
	  •   •   The persistently creative life, of which every individual and every species is an experiment is God. God and Life are one
	    •   Creation is not a mystery, we experience it in ourselves when we act freely
	    •   Life can conquer anything given enough time ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgshdtnarqa3c6ycw2mxnsn))
		- **Note**: In Creative Evolution, Bergson argues that life is more than its machinery, it is an ever-evolving power that is capable of taking control of its environment. He also believes that life is God, and that creation is not a mystery, but can be experienced when we act freely. Lastly, Bergson suggests that given enough time, life can conquer anything.
	- **What is beauty?** Croce says it is the the mental formation of an image (or series of images) that catches the essence of the thing perceived. The beauty belongs to the inward image rather than the outward form in which it is embodied. Beauty is expression. There is nothing in the world except beauty ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgrndh7f59jvzxfd4g39j28))
		- **Note**: Beauty is when we form a picture in our minds of something that captures its true meaning. The beauty is inside the picture, not in the way it looks on the outside. Beauty is about showing how something feels. There is no other way to describe beauty.
	- The distinctive feature of the unintelligent man is the hastiness and absoluteness of his opinions; the scientist is slow to believe and never speaks without modification ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgrkwvvj32s3jx0r6gmmpgw))
		- **Note**: The difference between an unintelligent person and a scientist is that an unintelligent person quickly makes up their mind and never changes it, while a scientist takes time to think before deciding and is always open to changing their opinion.
	- Reason is man's imitation of divinity ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgrk5fz3b7d198pvzbak4zh))
		- **Tags**: #[[reason]]
	- [[Consciousness]] is not an entity, not a thing but a flux and system of relations ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgrjqzkdmgq4z0j53s0wxc7))
		- **Tags**: #[[consciousness]]
	- Men accept or reject philosophies according to their needs and temperaments, not according to "objective truth." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgrhvk8jwnwsd4dymnn8qy9))
		- **Note**: People choose which ideas to believe based on what works for them and their personality, not just because it is true.
	- Growth is the finest of all things. Perfection is not a final goal but the ever-enduring process of perfecting, maturing, refining is the aim in living. The bad man is the man who, no matter how good he has been, is beginning to deteriorate, to grow less good. The good man is the man who, no matter how morally unworthy he has been, is moving to become better. Goodness without ability is lame; and all virtue in the world will not save us if we lack intelligence. Ignorance is not bliss, it is unconsciousness and slavery... ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgrghn8s2f7tdj14869y4nz))
		- **Note**: Growth is wonderful. It is not enough to be perfect, we should always strive to get better. A bad person is someone who is starting to do bad things, even if they have been good in the past. A good person is someone who is trying to be better, even if they have done bad things in the past. It is not enough to be a good person, you also need to be smart. Ignorance is not good, it is like being asleep and not in control of your life.
- New highlights added [[Feb 18th, 2023]] at 11:00 AM
	- Everything is guided from within, by its nature and structure and the realization of its potential ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtrsgegqzj7kzegd39j7ej))
	- Aristotle does not accept that motion is beginning-less. "God does not create, but He moves, the world; and he moves it not as a mechanical force but as the total motive of all operations in the world...He is pure energy...He is not so much a person as a magnetic power." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtrnbnz9s3b772dkk2ef7q))
	- Aristotle's definition of the soul says that the soul is the entire vital principle of any organism, the sum of its powers and processes. It can exist only in its own body and cannot completely die. What survives is not the personality (memories, desires, etc.) but the mind in its most abstract and impersonal form - pure thought ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtrc76f20876nb01m75yyj))
	- Art is essentially imitation of reality but the aim is to represent its inward significance; for this, and not the external mannerism and detail, is their reality ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgts40zdaga5qg50r0ak5jw))
	- Aristotle does not accept that motion is beginning-less. "God does not create, but He moves, the world; and he moves it not as a mechanical force but as the total motive of all operations in the world...He is pure energy...He is not so much a person as a magnetic power." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsr42g3mp0d19sxte9df7e))
		- **Note**: Aristotle rejects the idea that motion has no beginning and instead proposes that God is the source of motion in the world. He sees God not as a person, but as a force of pure energy that motivates all operations in the world.
	- **Aristotle's "Superman"** - He does not expose himself needlessly to danger, since there are few things for which he cares sufficiently; but he is willing, in great crises, to give even his life--knowing that under certain conditions it is not worth while to live. He is of a disposition to do men service, though he is ashamed to have a service done to him. To confer a kindness is a mark of superiority; to receive one is a mark of subordination.....He does not take part in public displays...He is open in his dislikes and preferences; he talks and acts frankly, because of his contempt for men and things...He is never fired with admiration, since there is nothing great in his eyes. He cannot live in complaisance with others, except it be a friend. Complaisance is the characteristic of a slave...He never feels malice, and always forgets and passes over injuries...He is not fond of talking...It is no concern of his that he should be praised, or that others should be blamed. He does not speak evil of others, even of his enemies, unless it be to themselves. His carriage is sedate, his voice deep, his speech measured; he is not given to hurry, for he is concerned only about a few things; he is never prone to vehemence, for he thinks nothing very important. A shrill voice and hasty steps come to a man through care...He bears the accidents of life with dignity and grace, making the best of his circumstances, like a skillful general who marshals his limited forces with all the strategy of war...He is his own best friend, and takes delight in privacy whereas the man of no virtue or ability is his own worst enemy, and is afraid of solitude. (Ethics, iv,3) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtsa5gv3kdvvxsf1hww894))
	- **Aristotle's "Superman"** - He does not expose himself needlessly to danger, since there are few things for which he cares sufficiently; but he is willing, in great crises, to give even his life--knowing that under certain conditions it is not worth while to live. He is of a disposition to do men service, though he is ashamed to have a service done to him. To confer a kindness is a mark of superiority; to receive one is a mark of subordination.....He does not take part in public displays...He is open in his dislikes and preferences; he talks and acts frankly, because of his contempt for men and things...He is never fired with admiration, since there is nothing great in his eyes. He cannot live in complaisance with others, except it be a friend. Complaisance is the characteristic of a slave...He never feels malice, and always forgets and passes over injuries...He is not fond of talking...It is no concern of his that he should be praised, or that others should be blamed. He does not speak evil of others, even of his enemies, unless it be to themselves. His carriage is sedate, his voice deep, his speech measured; he is not given to hurry, for he is concerned only about a few things; he is never prone to vehemence, for he thinks nothing very important. A shrill voice and hasty steps come to a man through care...He bears the accidents of life with dignity and grace, making the best of his circumstances, like a skillful general who marshals his limited forces with all the strategy of war...He is his own best friend, and takes delight in privacy whereas the man of no virtue or ability is his own worst enemy, and is afraid of solitude. (Ethics, iv,3) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgss9akkrqr1h1ftj0ahva0))
		- **Tags**: #[[@aristotile]]
		- **Note**: Aristotle's "Superman" is someone who is brave and strong, but doesn't take unnecessary risks. He is willing to help others, and he is respectful of people who are more powerful than he is. He is honest in his opinions and rarely admires anything, since he believes that nothing is truly great. He doesn't like to flatter or be flattered, and he doesn't talk about others behind their back. He speaks calmly and slowly, and he doesn't get too excited about anything. He is a good leader and knows how to make the best of any situation. He is his own best friend and enjoys being alone, while someone without any virtues or strengths is afraid of being alone.
	- Knowledge unapplied in action is a pale academic vanity ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsvk677bapzr7bt6wny50b))
	- Spinoza was influenced by the atomists (Democritus, Epicurus and Lucretius) by [Filippo Bruno](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giordano_Bruno) and mostly by [Rene Descartes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ren%C3%A9_Descartes) (subjective and idealistic vs Bacon who was objective and realistic) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsw2xdtrvb60m04a17q9k4))
	- Tractus Theologico-Politicus - the language of the Bible is deliberately metaphorical or allegorical for the understanding and inspiration of the masses. **God and the processes of nature are one** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgswegekwxw05mdex4r1tr6))
		- **Note**: This document suggests that God and the processes of nature are intertwined, and that the language of the Bible is used to help the masses understand and be inspired by this relationship.
	- **Mind and matter are inextricably united -** "For there are not two processes [mind and matter], and there are not two entities; there is but one process, seen now inwardly as thought, and now outwardly as motion; there is but one entity, seen now inwardly as mind, now outwardly as matter, but in reality an inextricable mixture and unity of both. Mind and body do not act upon each other, because they are not other, they are one" ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsxm8asnk9k3txrbs5kwxc))
		- **Note**: The mind and body are two parts of the same thing. They are connected and cannot be separated. They don't act on each other because they are the same thing. This means that the mind and body are one and the same.
	- What we usually call will should be called desire and desire is the essence of man ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgsyz6627e1ztf0yz4q1g3t))
	- "Men think themselves free because they are conscious of their volitions and desires, but are ignorant of the causes by which they are led to wish and desire." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgszc1enngxjyrnvhrdbd43))
		- **Note**: Men think themselves free 💫
		  Ignorant of the causes why 🤔
		  Desires and volitions. 🤲
	- •   Ultimately only three systems of ethics, three conceptions of the ideal character and the moral life
	  •   •   Buddha and Jesus stress the feminine; all men equally precious; resist evil only by returning good; identifies virtue with love; unlimited democracy
	    •   Machiavelli and Nietzsche stress the masculine; accept inequality in life; relish risks of combat, conquest and rule; identify virtue with power; hereditary aristocracy
	    •   Socrates, Plato and Aristotle deny the universal applicability of either feminine or masculine; consider only the informed and mature mind can judge; when love should rule and when power should rule; identify virtue with intelligence; mixture of aristocracy and democracy ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtbn863fb3cvadedmrgqa3))
		- **Note**: The Story of Philosophy outlines three different systems of ethics which represent different views on the ideal character and moral life. Buddha and Jesus emphasize a feminine approach, advocating a respect for all men and using good to resist evil. Machiavelli and Nietzsche, on the other hand, focus on a masculine approach and accept inequality, favoring the use of power and the risks of combat, conquest, and rule. Finally, Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle believe that neither a feminine or masculine approach is universally applicable, and that informed and mature minds should be used to decide when love or power should be used, and identify virtue with intelligence, proposing a mixture of aristocracy and democracy.
	- Happiness is the goal of conduct and happiness is the presence of pleasure and the absence of pain but both are relative and not absolute. They are also not states, but transitions ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtfqfg4jk4dyqy4txgaz3c))
	- •   **Thesis, antithesis and synthesis constitute the formula and secret of all development and all reality**
	  •   •   **The movement of thought, then, is the same as the movement of things; in each there is a dialectical progression from unity through diversity to diversity-in-unity. Thought and being follow the same law; and logic and metaphysics are one**
	    •   The function of the mind, and the task of philosophy, is to discover the unity that lies potential in diversity; the task of ethics is to unify character and conduct; and the task of politics is to unify individuals into a state; the task of religion is to reach and feel that Absolute in which all opposites are resolved into unity, that great sum of being in which matter and mind, subject and object, good and evil, are one ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtsjpp0zqfxbp2nyqs4yng))
	- "Life is the continuous adjustment of internal relations to external relations" ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtx3d4rry3e7m05ahm937f))
	- Like militarism, socialism involves the development of centralization, the extension of government power, the decay of initiative and the subordination of the individual ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtx885t38k82eqsj90srzd))
		- **Tags**: #[[socialism]]
	- Morality, like art, is the achievement of unity in diversity; **the highest type of man is he who effectively unites in himself the widest variety, complexity and completeness of life** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtwv7c328nsg2g6bag2j71))
	- "If life is a struggle for existence in which the fittest survive, then strength is the ultimate virtue, and weakness the only fault. *Good* is that which survives, which wins; *bad* is that which gives way and fails." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtvvttmrvdsm0j2dqr9stc))
	- *Thus Spake* *Zarathustra* was his seminal work and one of the greatest works of the 19th century but hardly anybody even recognized it - says God is dead and the next step is this Superman who is immortal through Eternal Recurrence (things will repeat an infinite number of times) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtvpqvntdbktxyc76vd86m))
	- The true test of a man, group, species is energy, capacity and power ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtw3tayss20hvve40cr5tp))
	- Morality lies not in kindness, but in strength and the goal of human effort should be not the elevation of all but the development of finer and stronger individuals. Superman, not mankind, is the goal ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtw8318ns19mpfh1tzkxj1))
	- •   What is good? - all that increaseth power, power itself, in a man
	  •   What is bad? - all that comes from weakness ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtwdqr1rjv7esm22v5hbw5))
	- Mind is the primary and ultimate  reality (against materialism) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgttwhc3811ky1pvrm793dg))
	- An idealist - all reality is idea; we know nothing except in the form it takes in our sensations and our thoughts ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtv2nc4pztjh8g43yxefrg))
	- Pure concept = universal concept (evolution, quantity, quality) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtv7bs024n7cfzcm3r43y6))
	- Knowledge is either intuitive or logical - knowledge obtained through the imagination or knowledge obtained through the intellect and knowledge of the individual or universal ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtvf4r7kezshtcck1xrsm8))
	- **What is beauty?** Croce says it is the the mental formation of an image (or series of images) that catches the essence of the thing perceived. The beauty belongs to the inward image rather than the outward form in which it is embodied. Beauty is expression. There is nothing in the world except beauty ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtvbmyqnfm9p7m9fp4k2dv))
	- No problems had value unless they can provide actionable steps ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgttd6h323hp2n455khkmjq))
	- Only the individual has value - everything else is a means ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgttfk7317vkxtzf1mvg0x5))
	- Divinity is within us and not in the neutral cosmic powers ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtt2vczfj7s5tcx9t513sg))
	- Growth is the finest of all things. Perfection is not a final goal but the ever-enduring process of perfecting, maturing, refining is the aim in living. The bad man is the man who, no matter how good he has been, is beginning to deteriorate, to grow less good. The good man is the man who, no matter how morally unworthy he has been, is moving to become better. Goodness without ability is lame; and all virtue in the world will not save us if we lack intelligence. Ignorance is not bliss, it is unconsciousness and slavery... ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsgtszsx40dq0x7ge3nvt0gg))