title:: The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-22-immutable-laws-of-marketing/
document_note:: The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing are a set of guidelines for marketing success. The key takeaways are that it is better to be first in the minds of customers than first in the marketplace; marketing is a battle of perception, not product; focus on one unique word or attribute; two companies cannot own the same word in a customer's mind; there is a hierarchy in the mind that customers use in making decisions; over time, a market will divide into two or more; marketing effects take place over an extended period of time; there is an irresistible pressure to extend the equity of the brand; you have to give up something to get something; be honest about your weaknesses; try for a single, bold stroke; think like a customer; accept failure; don't rely on hype; recognize trends and build flexibility into your organization; get the idea before the money; and stretch out a rapidly rising business.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- Law of Unpredictability - While you can’t predict the future, you can get a handle on trends, which is a way to take advantage of change. One way to cope with an unpredictable world is to build an enormous amount of flexibility into your organization. Good short-term planning is coming up with that angle or word that differentiates your product or company. Then you set up a coherent long-term marketing direction that builds a program to maximize that idea or angle. **Not a long-term plan, but a long-term direction.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7fay9zz7xsz0qn9n2mf86))
		- **Note**: The Law of Unpredictability means that it's hard to guess what will happen in the future. But it is possible to keep track of trends which can help you make the most of any changes that occur. To handle an unpredictable world, you need to make sure your organization is very flexible. Good short-term planning means you should think of a unique idea or word that makes your product or company stand out. Then you create a long-term direction that will help you to get the most out of that idea or word. This doesn't mean you have to make a long-term plan, but it does mean you need to have a long-term goal.
	- Law of Failure - **Failure is to be expected and accepted. Too many companies try to fix things rather than drop things. Admit it and move on** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsq7f195qz5wap8khhcej3q7))