title:: The 33 Strategies of War (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The 33 Strategies of War"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-33-strategies-of-war/
document_note:: This document covers a range of strategies for war and conflict. The strategies include judging people by their actions, avoiding direct confrontation, creating a sense of urgency and desperation, creating a threatening presence, gaining intelligence, dividing and conquering, baiting people into going out on a limb, crafting a plan with branches, negotiating while advancing, weaving a blend of fact and fiction, denying targets, creating alliances and dominating while seeming to submit. All of these strategies are intended to help people win conflicts while minimizing losses.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 17th, 2023]]
	- **Avoid the snares of groupthink: the command and control strategy** - The problem in leading any group is that people inevitably have their own agendas. You have to create a chain of command in which they do not feel constrained by your influence yet follow your lead. Create a sense of participation, but do not fall into groupthink - the irrationality of collective decision making ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsfh2hwyejetqqza9g0g6hsk))
		- **Note**: When you are in charge of a group of people, it can be hard because everyone may have different ideas. You must make sure that everyone knows what to do and follows your directions, but that they still feel free to give their own opinions. Try to make sure everyone is included, but don't get stuck in a situation where everyone thinks the same thing and makes bad decisions.
	- **Segment your forces: the controlled-chaos strategy** - the critical elements in war are speed and adaptability - the ability to move and make decisions faster than the enemy. Break your forces into independent groups that can operate on their own. Make your forces elusive and unstoppable by infusing them with the spirit of the campaign, giving them a mission to accomplish, and then letting them run ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsfh31d2hbxs2n1gvtnmpv8k))
		- **Note**: The controlled-chaos strategy is about making fast decisions and being able to change quickly to stay ahead of your enemies. To do this, break up your forces into smaller groups that can act on their own. Make your forces strong and unstoppable by giving them a mission to complete and then giving them the freedom to do it.
	- **Transform your war into a crusade: moral strategies** - the secret to motivating people and maintaining their moral is to get them to think less about themselves and more about the group. Involve them in a cause, a crusade against a hated enemy. Make them see their survival as tied to the success of the army as a whole
	  
	  1.  To build morale - unite your troops around a cause, make them fight for an idea; keep their bellies full; lead from the front; concentrate their ch'i (energy), play to their emotions; mix harshness and kindness; build the group myth; be ruthless with grumblers ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsfh3fyjgbvjw5hffk9ce5sa))
		- **Note**: Transform your war into a crusade is a strategy that helps motivate people and keep them moral. This strategy is about getting people to think more about the group they are part of, rather than just themselves. To do this, involve them in a cause, like a crusade against an enemy. Make them understand that their survival is connected to the success of the group. To build morale, it is important to unite your troops around a common cause, give them food to keep their strength, lead them from the front, get them to focus their energy, and make sure to mix both kindness and harshness. Also, build a group myth and be firm with anyone who criticizes the group.
	- **Pick your battles carefully: the perfect-economy strategy** - We all have limitations - our energies and skills will take us only so far. You must know your limits and pick your battles carefully. Consider the hidden costs of war: time lost, political goodwill squandered, an embittered enemy bent on revenge. Sometimes it is better to wait, to undermine your enemies covertly rather than hitting them straight on ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsfh7dn8fyd0yaayyknf3syx))
		- **Note**: When you are in a battle, it is important to think carefully about what you are doing. There are costs to fighting, like using up a lot of your time, making people not like you, and creating an enemy who wants to get back at you. Instead of fighting right away, sometimes it is better to take your time and find sneaky ways to hurt your enemies without them knowing.
	- **Trade space for time: the nonengagement strategy** - retreat in the face of a strong enemy is not a sign of weakness but of strength. By resisting the temptation to respond to an aggressor, you buy yourself valuable time - time to recover, to think, to gain perspective. Sometimes you can accomplish most by doing nothing.
	  
	  1.  **Sometimes you accomplish most by doing nothing** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsfh6r5bmgbsaqm0x45q66g5))
		- **Note**: When you are facing a strong enemy, it is not a sign of weakness to retreat. By not giving in to the urge to fight back, you will get more time to think and plan. This can help you more than trying to fight back. Sometimes, the best way to handle a situation is to do nothing.
	- **Control the dynamic: forcing strategies** - People are constantly struggling to control you. The only way to get the upper hand is to make your play for control more intelligent and insidious. Instead of trying to dominate the other side's move, work to define the nature of the relationship itself. Maneuver to control your opponent's minds, pushing their emotional buttons and compelling them to make mistakes.
	  
	  1.  Dynamic strategies - keep your enemies on their heels; shift the battlefield; compel mistakes; assume passive control ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsfh68a20nhacv89ys4pk6bc))
		- **Note**: People are always trying to control you. To gain the advantage, you need to use smarter and sneakier strategies. Instead of trying to overpower your opponents, try to change the power structure that determines how you both interact. Try to control your opponent's thoughts, by pressing their emotional buttons and making them make mistakes. In order to do this, keep your opponents off balance; change the situation; pressure them to make mistakes; and take control without them knowing.
	- **Maneuver them into weakness: the ripening for the sickle strategy** - No matter how strong you are, fighting endless battles with people is exhausting, costly, and unimaginative. Wise strategists prefer the art of maneuver: before the battle even begins, they find ways to put their opponents in positions of such weakness that victory is easy and quick. Create dilemmas: devise maneuvers that give them a choice of ways to respond - all of them bad
	  
	  1.  Four main principles of maneuver warfare - craft a plan with branches; give yourself room to maneuver; give your enemy dilemmas, not problems; create maximum disorder ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsfh5gzymdaxpqmha45brch5))
		- **Note**: "The 'Ripening for the Sickle Strategy' is a way of winning a battle without having to fight. You look for ways to make your enemy weak, so that when you do fight, winning is easy. To do this, you make a plan with many possible paths, give yourself room to make different choices, give your enemy difficult choices, and make sure everything is in chaos. This will help you win without having to fight a big, long battle."
	- **Negotiate while advancing: the diplomatic war strategy** - Before and during negotiations, you must keep advancing, creating relentless pressure and compelling the other side to settle on your terms. The more you take, the more you can give back in meaningless concessions. Create a reputation for being tough and uncompromising, so that people are back on their heels before they even meet you ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsfh4z9vj8ezx8smkpyggnmk))
		- **Note**: Negotiate while advancing is a strategy for war. Before and during negotiations, you must keep progressing and creating more pressure so that the other side has to agree to what you want. The more you can get, the more you can give away in return. You should also have a reputation for being strong and not giving up, so that people feel scared to go against you before even talking to you.
	- **Know how to end things: the exit strategy** - You are judged in this world by how well you bring things to an end. A messy or incomplete conclusion can reverberate for years to come. The art of ending things well is knowing when to stop. The height of strategic wisdom is to avoid all conflicts and entanglements from which there are no realistic exists
	  
	  1.  Leave people always wanting more
	  2.  Victory and defeat are what you make of them; it is how you deal with them that matters. Since defeat is inevitable in life, you must master the art of losing well and strategically
	  3.  See defeat as a temporary setback, something to wake you up and teach you a lesson
	  4.  See any defeat as a way to demonstrate something positive about yourself and your character to other people
	  5.  If you see that defeat is inevitable, it is often best to go down swinging ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsfh4h0kk6j6zjq3b215t8r6))
		- **Note**: The way to end things successfully is to know when to stop. It's important to avoid getting tangled up in situations that have no good solution. When you experience a loss, you should try to learn from it. It can be seen as a chance to show people how strong you are and that you can handle difficult situations. If you know that you can't win, it's sometimes best to fight until the very end.