title:: The Nature of Technology: What It Is and How It Evolves (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Nature of Technology: What It Is and How It Evolves"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-nature-of-technology/
document_note:: Technology is a recursive structure that is constantly evolving and being combined to create new technologies. It is composed of existing technologies and phenomenon which are harnessed and programmed for some purpose. This recursive structure and combination of existing technologies leads to exponential growth and innovation. Technology is also creating the dominant issues of our time as we move from enhancing the natural to directly intervening within it. The theory of technology is needed to understand the innovation process, and the economy emerges from its technologies.
tags:: #[[technology]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- We have great understanding about individual technologies but very little in the way of the general understanding. Much like in 1800 there was a great understanding about the family relationships among animals but few principles like evolution to hold all this knowledge together. Missing in other words is the theory of technology - an “Ology” of technology ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmk0v2v6g2kw4jdwfatfr9n))
		- **Note**: People know a lot about certain technologies, but they don't understand much about technology as a whole. In 1800, people understood a lot about how different types of animals were related, but they didn't really have a way to explain why this was true. We are missing a type of theory that explains how technology works.
	- Arthur gives three definitions of technology:
	  
	  1.  A means to fulfill a human purpose
	  2.  An assemblage of practices and components
	  3.  An entire collection of devices and practices available to a culture.
	  4.  A means to fulfill a purpose: a device, method, or process (combination, recursiveness, reliance on a natural effect(s) ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmk1r58gm78xh6zqrk0yw4h))
	- •   Phenomena are the source of all technologies. In the essence of technology lies and orchestrating them to fulfill a purpose. Phenomenon or simply natural effects exist independently of humans and of technology. They have no use attached to them. The principal by contrast is the idea of use of a phenomenon for some purpose and it exist very much in the world of humans and of use. In practice, before phenomenon can be used for technology, they must be harnessed and set up to work properly. They can barely be used in raw form and must be coaxed to operate satisfactorily and may only work in a narrow range of conditions. So, the right combination of means to set them up for the purpose intended must first be found. Therefore the practical technology consists of many phenomena working together. Technology can then be thought of as a collection of phenomenon captured and put to use. In its essence a technology consist of certain phenomenon programmed for some purpose. Technology can then be seen as a metabolism where the phenomenon are the genes of technology - they interact in complex ways, converse with each other, similar to how subroutines and computer programs call each other. *Biology programs genes into myriad structures and technology programs phenomena to myriad uses*
	  •   *I like to think of phenomena as hidden underground - not available until discovered in mind into. This is general with phenomena as a family of phenomena is mined into effect. Some covered earlier begin to create methods and understandings that help uncover later. One effect leads to another, then to another, until eventually a whole vein of related phenomenon has been mined into.* A family of a facts forms a set of chambers connected by seams and passageways - one leading to another. And that is not all. The chambers in one place, one family, of the facts leads through passageways to chambers elsewhere to different families. Quantum phenomenon could not have been uncovered without the prior uncovering of the electrical phenomena. Phenomenon form a connected system of excavated chambers and passageways. *The whole system underground is connected*. This build out happens slowly as it earlier forms of instruments and devices help uncover later ones. *In this way, the uncovering a phenomenon builds itself out of itself*. Phenomena accumulate by bootstrapping their way forward. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmk251pk6jmjheze7w7d8gq))
		- **Note**: The essence of technology lies in harnessing and setting up phenomena to fulfill a purpose. Technology is a collection of phenomena programmed for some purpose, similar to how computer programs call each other. Phenomena form a connected system, with earlier forms of instruments and devices helping to uncover later ones. Phenomena accumulate by bootstrapping their way forward, leading to the uncovering of new phenomenon.
	- *The greatest innovations are new domainings - a switching to a new cluster of technologies*. They allow not only a wholly new and more efficient way to carry out a purpose but allow entirely new possibilities. As when the provision of power switched from being expressed in waterwheel technology to steam. *A change in domain is the main way in which technology progresses but a novel domain may appear to have little direct importance early on. Such components and the way they are used do not just reflect the style of the times, they define the style of the times. An era does not just create technology, technology creates the era* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmk3hqmsgeskzsweqwazc2x))
		- **Tags**: #[[disruption]]
		- **Note**: The best innovations involve something completely new, like a new way of doing something or new possibilities. For example, in the past, people used waterwheels to do work but then they found a better way - steam. This was a big change, called a 'change in domain'. This big change is the main way that technology advances, even if it doesn't seem important at first. Technology can change the world and the way we do things, and the world changes the way technology works.
	- •   The domain's grammar determines how its elements fit together and the conditions under which they fit together determines what works. Where do such grammars arise from? Well, of course ultimately from nature. Behind the grammar of electronics lies the physics of the electron motions and the laws of electrical phenomena. Big grammar determines how the elements interrelate, interact, and combine to generate structures. Grammars in large part reflect our understanding of how nature works in a particular domain. Mastery in the technology in fact is difficult to achieve because of technology grammar. Unlike a linguistic one, this grammar changes rapidly.
	  •   Domains are worlds in the sense that experts lose themselves in them. They disappear mentally into them just as we disappear into the world of English when we write a letter. They think in terms of purposes and work these backwards into individual operations in their mental world. Much as a composer works a musical theme back into the instrumental parts that will express it. Some domains have deep worlds with a lot of possibilities. *What can be accomplished easily in the domain's world constitutes that domains power*. So, understanding this leads to the natural conclusion that an object or business activity to be worked on effectively must be brought into more than one world to make use of what can be accomplished in each. *But there is a general lesson here: cost accumulates anywhere and activity leaves one world and enters another. Shipping a freight containers by sea is not expensive but transferring freight from the domain of rail into the shipping container world requires the cumbersome and expensive technologies of railhead, stocks, container handling cranes, and stevedoring. Such bridging technologies are usually the most awkward aspect of a domain. They create delays and bottlenecks and therefore run-up costs but they are necessary because they make the domain available in control what can enter and leave its world*. We can think of a domain as containing a small number of central operations that are streamlined and cheap - maritime container transportation say. But, surrounding these on the outer edges of the domain, are the slower and more awkward technologies that allow activities to enter the world and leave it when finished - the docs and gantry cranes of that world. These in general are costly. *Domains reflect the power of the worlds they create but they also reflect its limitations. There is nothing static about these worlds. What can be accomplished constantly changes as a domain evolves and as it expands its base of phenomena. One implication is that innovation is not so much a parade of inventions with subsequent adoptions. It is a constant re-expressing or redomaining of old tasks within new worlds of the possible* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmk597x8xk5bw4red6h6fst))
		- **Note**: This text discusses the nature of technology and how it evolves. It explains that the grammar of a domain determines how elements of the domain fit together and how mastery in the technology is difficult to achieve due to this rapidly changing grammar. It also explains that a domain is a world in which experts can lose themselves and that the power of the domain is determined by what can be accomplished easily within the world. However, there is a cost associated with bridging activities between domains. Lastly, the text suggests that innovation is not simply a parade of inventions but is instead a process of re-expressing tasks within new worlds of the possible.
	- •   Requirements start from the key purpose and proceed outward, the needs of one assembly determining those of the next. A design is a set of compromises. Intention comes first and the means to fulfill it - the combination of components - fall in behind it. Design is expression
	  •   Many innovations and great designs do not come from genius but from an accumulation of knowledge and expertise slowly gathered over years
	  •   *The search is continuous, conceptual, wide, and often obsessive. This continuous thinking allows the subconscious to work, possibly to recall an effect or concept from past experience, and it procures a subconscious alertness so that when a candidate principle or a different way to define the problem suggests itself the whisper at the door is heard. Strangely, for people who report such breakthroughs, the insight arrives whole, as if the subconscious had already put the parts together. And it arrives with a “knowing” that the solution is right - a feeling of its appropriateness, its elegance, its extraordinary simplicity. The insight comes to an individual person, not a team, for it wells always from an individual subconscious. And it arrives not in the midst of activities or in frenzied thought, but in moments of stillness. One must be open to see a purpose for what appears to be a spurious effect* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmk76csqnar39amfvhxb04g))
		- **Note**: This text discusses the nature of technology and how it evolves. It notes that the design of technology is driven by purpose and that the key to innovation and great design is an accumulation of knowledge and expertise. Additionally, it suggests that breakthrough insights often come to individuals in moments of stillness and arrive with an innate "knowing" that the solution is right.
	- Innovation emerges when people are faced by problems: particular, well-specified problems. It arises as solutions to these are conceived of by people stating many means or many functionalities that they can combine. It is enhanced by funding that enables this by training and experience in myriad functionalities. By the existence of special projects and labs devoted to the study of particular problems and by local cultures which foster deep craft. But it is not a monopoly of a single region or country or people. It arises anywhere problems are studied and sufficient background exists in the pieces that will form solutions. In fact we can see that innovation has two main themes. One is this constant finding or putting together of new solutions out of existing tool boxes of pieces and practices. The other is industries constantly combining their practices and processes with functionality is drawn from newly arriving toolboxes, new domains. This second theme, like the first, is about the creation of new processes and arrangements, new means to purposes. But it is more important. This is because it is a new domain of significance. Think of the digital one - it is encountered by all industries in an economy. As this happens, the domain combines some of its offerings with arrangements native to many industries. The result is new processes and arrangements, new ways of doing things - not just in one area of application but all across the economy. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmk8age7pdj52fa0h8cwqhx))
		- **Tags**: #[[innovation]]
		- **Note**: Innovation is a result of people attempting to solve particular well-defined problems by combining different functionalities. It can be encouraged by specialized projects and labs, funding, training, and local cultures that foster craftsmanship. Innovation is not limited to any one region but can arise anywhere where there is an understanding of the pieces and processes that will form solutions to the problems. There are two main themes in innovation: the combination of pieces and practices to create new solutions, and the combination of different practices and processes from new domains with those of existing industries. This second theme is particularly important since it affects all industries in an economy, leading to new processes and arrangements.
	- All explanations are constructions from simpler parts ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmka6yat31ja3aj3s7kp3bc))
	- Arthur thinks of the economy as the set of arrangements and activities by which a society satisfies its needs. The economy is an expression of its technologies. The economy in this way emerges from its technologies. It constantly creates itself out of its technologies and decides which new technologies will enter it. Notice the circular causality at work here. *Technology creates the structure of the economy and the economy mediates the creation of novel technology and therefore its own creation* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmkasg0nf6jwhfg6b0d07ma))
		- **Note**: Technology creates the way a society works, which is called the economy. The economy decides what new technologies will be used. This creates a circle because the economy is both created by technology and also helps create new technology.
	- As technology becomes more biological and generative, the economy reflects this too. In the generative economy, management derives its competitive advantage not from its stock of resources and its ability to transform these into finished goods but from its ability to translate its stock of deep expertise into ever new strategic combinations. Reflecting this, nations will prosper not so much from the ownership of resources as from the ownership of specialized scientific and technical expertise ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsmkbsrt2n8s12rb3g08pj8t))
		- **Note**: As technology becomes more like things found in nature, the way people buy and sell things changes too. Instead of relying on the things they have to make more things, people will get ahead if they have a lot of knowledge about science and technology. This means that countries will do better if they have experts in science and technology, rather than just owning a lot of things.