title:: The Power Broker (highlights)
author:: [[wikipedia.org]]
full-title:: "The Power Broker"
category:: #articles
url:: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Power_Broker
document_note:: The Power Broker is a 1974 biography of Robert Moses by Robert Caro. It focuses on the acquisition and use of power in New York politics, as witnessed through Moses' use of unelected positions to design and implement dozens of highways and bridges. Caro traces Moses' life from his childhood to his early years as an advocate for reform to his eventual attainment of great power over the city and state. He portrays Moses as an appointed bureaucrat who, through his reputation, amassed so much power that the many elected officials whom he reported to instead became dependent on him. Caro wrote the book after writing a series for Newsday about a proposed bridge across Long Island Sound, and spent seven years researching and writing it. When it was published, it generated substantial public discussion and won the Pulitzer Prize. In recent years, a more positive view of Moses' career has emerged in reaction to his portrayal in the book.
tags:: #[[books]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Mar 28th, 2023]]
	- *The Power Broker* traces Moses' life from his childhood in [Connecticut](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connecticut) to his early years as an idealistic advocate for [Progressive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Progressive_Era) reform of the city's corrupt [civil service](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_service) system. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gwgxpj8jxe75ywq42a50fgag))
		- **Note**: The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York is a 1974 biography by Robert Caro about Robert Moses, focusing on his use of unelected positions to design and implement dozens of highways and bridges in New York, often at the expense of the communities he served. Caro pays tribute to Moses for his intelligence, political shrewdness, and management style, but has an ambivalent view of him. The book was written after Caro wrote a series of articles in the early 1960s criticizing Moses' proposed bridge across Long Island Sound. It took Caro seven years to write the book, and upon its publication in 1974, it generated substantial public discussion and received recognition from the American Institute of Architects. In later years, a more positive view of Moses' career has emerged, with museum exhibits and books reassessing his legacy. The Power Broker is still widely read today and is considered a classic of investigative journalism.