title:: The Prince (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Prince"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-prince/
document_note:: Niccolo Machiavelli's The Prince is an influential book laying out advice on how a prince should rule successfully in order to maintain power. Machiavelli divides his advice into two parts; one part focuses on gaining the confidence of the people rather than relying on fortresses, and the other part focuses on avoiding hatred from the people and other powers. He also emphasizes the importance of understanding one's own strength and means, as well as the importance of being able to recognize and reward capable individuals. Machiavelli's overall message is that, while it is important to appear to have virtues such as mercy and loyalty, a prince must ultimately be willing to make difficult choices in order to maintain power.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 16th, 2023]]
	- It is far better to gain the confidence of the people than to rely on fortresses ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gscv95ftmd5hhr9r1mvjdrzx))
		- **Tags**: #[[leadership]]
	- Men are still the dupes of their simplicity and greed ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gscv9hkvzd4xqwsfphj7gyda))
	- Upon this a question arises: whether it be better to be loved than feared or feared than loved? It may be answered that one should wish to be both, but, because it is difficult to unite them in one person, it is much safer to be feared than loved, when, of the two, either must be dispensed with. Love is preserved by the link of obligation which, owing to the baseness of men, is broken at every opportunity for their advantage; but fear preserves you by a dread of punishment which never fails. **Above being feared and loved, it is more important to avoid hatred** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gscv9tnpm70ffvapppverc1x))
		- **Note**: When it comes to being a leader, it is good to be both loved and feared. But it is hard for one person to do both. So, it is better to be feared than loved. People can break promises they make out of selfishness. But fear makes people obey rules out of fear of punishment. Even more important than being loved and feared, is to make sure people don't hate you.
	- It is of the greatest important in this world that a man should know himself, and the measure of his own strength and means; and he who knows that he has not a genius for fighting must learn how to govern by the arts of peace. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gscvavwf3gsgmrmt9g8f0sd7))
		- **Note**: Know thy strengths and means 🤔
		  A genius for peace, not war 🧐
		  Learn to govern wisely 🤝
	- •   No principality is safe without having its own forces
	  •   Prince should focus on nothing else except for war and its rules and disciplines. However, histories, especially of illustrious men should be read and imitated
	  •   How one lives is so far distant from how one ought to live, that he who neglects what is done for what ought to be done, sooner effects his ruin than his preservation; for a man who wishes to act entirely up to his professions of virtue soon meets with what destroys him among so much that is evil
	  •   ...if everything is considered carefully, it will be found that something which looks like virtue, if followed, would be his ruin; whilst something else, which looks like a vice, yet followed brings him security and prosperity
	  •   It is wiser to have a reputation for meanness which brings reproach without hatred, than to be compelled through seeking a reputation for liberality to incur a name for rapacity which begets reproach with hatred
	  •   Every prince ought to desire to be considered clement and not cruel. Nevertheless he ought to take care not to misuse this clemency
	  •   Therefore it is unnecessary for a prince to have all the good qualities I have enumerated, but it is very necessary to appear to have them. And I shall dare to say this also, that to have them and always to observe them is injurious, and that to appear to have them is useful; to appear merciful, faithful, humane, religious, upright, and to be so, but with a mind so framed that should you require not to be so, you may be able and know how to change to the opposite
	  •   Hatred is acquired as much by good works as by bad ones, therefore, as I said before, a prince wishing to keep his state is very often forced to do evil; for when that body is corrupt whom you think you have need of to maintain yourself—it may be either the people or the soldiers or the nobles—you have to submit to its humors and to gratify them, and then good works will do you harm.
	  •   The prince who has more to fear from the people than from foreigners ought to build fortresses, but he who has more to fear from foreigners than from the people ought to leave them alone.
	  •   A prince is also respected when he is either a true friend or a downright enemy, that is to say, when, without any res ervation, he declares himself in favour of one party against the other; which course will always be more advantageous than standing neutral
	  •   The first opinion which one forms of a prince, and of his understanding, is by observing the men he has around him; and when they are capable and faithful he may always be considered wise, because he has known how to recognize the capable and to keep them faithful.
	  •   Therefore a wise prince ought to hold a third course by choosing the wise men in his state, and giving to them only the liberty of speaking the truth to him, and then only of those things of which he inquires, and of none others; but he ought to question them upon everything, and listen to their opinions, and afterwards form his own conclusions
	  •   it is a common defect in man not to make any provision in the calm against the tempest
	  •   Nevertheless, not to extinguish our free will, I hold it to be true that Fortune is the arbiter of one-half of our actions, but that she still leaves us to direct the other half, or perhaps a little less. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gscvc4f7c1dk3jttejht7qct))
		- **Note**: The Prince is an essay by Machiavelli which argues that a ruler must take into consideration both the good and bad qualities of a person to maintain a successful principality. He emphasizes that a prince should focus on war and its rules and disciplines, and should maintain a reputation for meanness rather than liberality in order to avoid hatred. A prince should also appear to have all the good qualities, such as mercy and faithfulness, to gain respect, but should have the ability to change to the opposite if necessary. Machiavelli also argues that a prince should build fortresses if they have more to fear from the people than from foreigners, and should choose wise men to advise them. Lastly, he suggests that while fortune has an influence on our actions, humans still have some control over their fate.