title:: The Meditations of the Emperor Marcus Antoninus/Book 5 (highlights)
author:: [[wikisource.org]]
full-title:: "The Meditations of the Emperor Marcus Antoninus/Book 5"
category:: #articles
url:: https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Meditations_of_the_Emperor_Marcus_Antoninus/Book_5
tags:: #[[@marus-aurelius]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Apr 22nd, 2023]]
	- At dawn of day, when you dislike being called, have this thought ready: 'I am called to man's labour; why then do I make a difficulty if I am going out to do what I was born to do and what I was brought into the world for? Is it for this that I am fashioned, to lie in bedclothes and keep myself warm?' 'But this is more pleasant.' 'Were you born then to please yourself; in fact for feeling, not for action? Can't you see the plants, the birds, the ants, the spiders, the bees each doing his own work, helping for their part to adjust a world? And then you refuse to do a man's office and don't make haste to do what is according to your own nature.' ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gyjzs1htm5p7de915mften50))
		- **Note**: Man's labour is what you were born to do.
	- 'But a man needs rest as well.' I agree, he does, yet Nature assigns limits to rest, as well as to eating and drinking, and you nevertheless go beyond her limits, beyond what is sufficient; in your actions only this is no longer so, there you keep inside what is in your power. The explanation is that you do not love your own self, else surely you would love both your nature and *her* purpose. But other men who love their own crafts wear themselves out in labours upon them, unwashed and unfed; while you hold your own nature in less honour than the smith his metal work, the dancer his art, the miser his coin, the lover of vainglory his fame. Yet they, when the passion is on them, refuse either to eat or to sleep sooner than refuse to advance the objects they care about, whereas you imagine acts of fellowship to bring a smaller return and to be deserving of less pains. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gyjzt7d3z5sqq941j29banha))
		- **Note**: The speaker agrees that people need rest, but Nature has set certain limits for rest, eating, and drinking. However, the speaker points out that the person they are speaking to goes beyond these limits and does not care for themselves enough. The speaker then compares this person to others who love their craft and are willing to go to great lengths to advance it, but this person does not feel the same way about their own nature. The speaker believes that this person does not put enough effort into helping others, thinking that it will not benefit them as much as other activities.
	- Make up your mind that you deserve every word and work that is according to Nature, and do not allow the ensuing blame or speech of any men to talk you over; but, if it is right to be done or said, do not count yourself undeserving of it. Those others have their own selves to govern them, and use their several inclinations. Don't look round at that, but walk the straight way, following your own and the common Nature, for the path of them both is one. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gyjzztm7nk0bs6btwy9287vv))
		- **Note**: Follow your own and common Nature.
	- 'Your mental powers they cannot admire.' Granted! but there is much else of which you cannot say: 'that is no gift of mine'. Bring forth then what is wholly in your power, freedom from guile, dignity, endurance of labour, distaste for pleasure, contentment with your portion, need of little, kindness, freedom, plain-living, reserve in speech, magnanimity. See you not how much you are able to bring forth, where there is no excuse of want of gift or want of facility, and yet you are content to keep a lower place? Are you obliged to grumble, to be grasping, to flatter, to blame your poor body,[[1]](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Meditations_of_the_Emperor_Marcus_Antoninus/Book_5#cite_note-1) to be obsequious, to vaunt yourself, to be tossed about in mind, because you have been fashioned without talent? No, by heaven, you had the power to be rid of all this long ago, and only, if at all, to be convicted of some slowness and tardiness of understanding; and even there you should exercise yourself, not disregarding your faults nor finding satisfaction in your dullness. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gyk05hm5a4ajwnat5awk5pk9))
		- **Note**: Although you may not be good at some things, there are still many things that you can do and be good at. You can be honest, strong, hard-working, not like pleasure too much, be happy with what you have, need little, be kind, independent, not talk too much, and be generous. Don't complain, take too much, flatter people, be too hard on yourself, do things just to please others, or be too easily swayed. You have the power to get rid of all of these bad habits, even if you may be a bit slow to understand them. But don't ignore your mistakes and don't be proud of being slow.
	- We commonly say: 'Aesculapius ordered a man horse-exercise, cold baths, or no shoes'; similarly we might say: 'Universal Nature ordered him sickness, disablement, loss or some other affliction.' In the former phrase 'ordered' virtually means 'laid this down for him as appropriate to health'; in the latter what befits every man has been laid down for him as appropriate to the natural order. So, too, we say things 'befit us' as workmen talk of squared blocks 'fitting' in walls or pyramids, bonding with one another in a definite structure. For in the whole of things there is one connecting harmony, and as out of all material bodies the world is made perfect into a connected body, so out of all causes the order of Nature is made perfect into one connected cause. Even quite simple folk have in their minds what I am saying, for they use the phrase; 'it was sent to him'; and so this was 'sent' to him, that is, 'this was ordered for him.' Accordingly let us accept these orders as we accept what Aesculapius orders. Many of them, too, are assuredly severe, yet we welcome them in hopes of health. Let the performance and completion of the pleasure of the Universal Nature seem to you to be your pleasure, precisely as the conduct of your health is seen to be, and so welcome all that comes to pass, even though it appear rather cruel, because it leads to that end, to the health of the universe, that is to the welfare and well-being of Zeus. For he would not 'send' this to one, if it were not to the well-being of the whole, no more than any living principle you may choose 'sends' anything which is not appropriate to what is governed by it. Thus there are two reasons why you must be content with what happens to you: first because it was for you it came to pass, for you it was ordered and to you it was related, a thread of destiny stretching back to the most ancient causes; secondly because that which has come to each individually is a cause of the welfare and the completion and in very truth of the actual continuance of that which governs the Whole. For the perfect Whole is mutilated if you sever the least part of the contact and continuity alike of its causes as of its members; and you do this so far as in you lies, whenever you are disaffected, and in a measure you are destroying it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gyk0dftf7x3nqmpt8cgeaa3j))
		- **Note**: We often say that a doctor tells us to do certain things like exercise, take cold baths, or go without shoes in order to stay healthy. But we can also say that Nature has told us things like sickness, disability, or loss. The doctor wanted us to do certain things because it was good for our health, and Nature wants us to experience these things because it is part of the natural order. It's like when a worker puts together a wall or pyramid and all the pieces fit together perfectly. In the same way, all of Nature's pieces fit together like a puzzle. Even people with no education understand this, because they often say things happen to us because it was "meant to be". So, we need to accept the things that Nature has "ordered" for us, just like we accept what the doctor tells us. Some of these things may not be pleasant, but we should still accept them because they help Nature stay healthy and in balance. Whenever we get upset about something that has happened to us, we are like taking a piece out of the puzzle and disrupting the natural order. That's why we should be content with whatever happens to us, because it was meant to be and it helps Nature stay in balance.
	- 'What have I now in this part which men call the governing part, and whose soul have I at present? A child's, a boy's, a woman's, a despot's, a dumb animal's, a dangerous beast's?' ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gyk081x91c1enhv5r4a9febh))
	- I was composed of a formal and a material substance; and of these neither will pass away into nothingness, just as neither came to exist out of nothingness. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gyk09hbxrq6rpe8m1prvd5vw))
		- **Note**: Formal and material substance eternal.
	- Nothing befalls anything which that thing is not naturally made to bear. The same experience befalls another, and he is unruffled and remains unharmed; either because he is unaware that it has happened or because he exhibits greatness of soul. Is it not strange that ignorance and complaisance are stronger than wisdom . . .? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gyk0b933xkhrp23jfkwpy2c0))
		- **Note**: Ignorance and complacence are stronger than wisdom.
	- Don't be carried away by imagination which sees only the surface, but help men as best you may and as they deserve, even though their loss be of something indifferent. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gyk0d1w2zq637p2tv95qjsrr))