title:: The Autobiography of Charles Darwin (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Autobiography of Charles Darwin"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/autobiography-of-charles-darwin/
document_note:: Charles Darwin was a passionate collector of natural phenomena, but considered himself to be an average intellect. Despite this, he had strong and varied tastes and was determined to understand complex topics. He was influenced by books such as Humboldt's 'Personal Narrative' and the voyage of the Beagle, which gave him his first real education and improved his powers of observation. This motivated him to devote his energies to natural science and he went on to publish two thick volumes on the origin of species. He was careful to make notes of any facts that were contrary to his general results, and delayed publishing his work in order to avoid bias. He also eventually came to the conclusion that humans must be subject to the same law of mutable production as other species.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 19th, 2023]]
	- Looking back as well as I can at my character during my school life, the only qualities which at this period promised well for the future, were, that I had strong and diversified tastes, much zeal for whatever interested me, and a keen pleasure in understanding any complex subject or thing. I was taught Euclid by a private tutor, and I distinctly remember the intense satisfaction which the clear geometrical proofs gave me.
	  
	  1.  NOTE: recipe for learning ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskdvv2cfzr59ww439fmx0wd))
		- **Note**: Charles Darwin reflects on his character during his school life and identifies strong and diversified tastes, a lot of enthusiasm for things that interested him, and a great joy in understanding complex concepts as qualities that showed promise for his future. He specifically mentions his enjoyment of learning Euclid through a private tutor, which gave him great satisfaction.
	- From September 1854 I devoted my whole time to arranging my huge pile of notes, to observing, and to experimenting in relation to the transmutation of species. During the voyage of the "Beagle" I had been deeply impressed by discovering in the Pampean formation great fossil animals covered with armour like that on the existing armadillos; secondly, by the manner in which closely allied animals replace one another in proceeding southwards over the Continent; and thirdly, by the South American character of most of the productions of the Galapagos archipelago, and more especially by the manner in which they differ slightly on each island of the group; none of the islands appearing to be very ancient in a geological sense. It was evident that such facts as these, as well as many others, could only be explained on the supposition that species gradually become modified; and the subject haunted me. But it was equally evident that neither the action of the surrounding conditions, nor the will of the organisms (especially in the case of plants) could account for the innumerable cases in which organisms of every kind are beautifully adapted to their habits of life—for instance, a woodpecker or a tree-frog to climb trees, or a seed for dispersal by hooks or plumes. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gske3ez7kcedb5y8ck6rtjya))
		- **Note**: Charles Darwin was deeply impressed by the various observations he made during the voyage of the Beagle. These observations included the presence of large fossil animals with armour similar to that of existing armadillos, the replacement of closely related animals as one moves southward across the continent, and the South American character of the species in the Galapagos archipelago. He concluded that species gradually become modified over time, but he could not explain how organisms were so perfectly adapted to their environments.
	- But at that time I overlooked one problem of great importance; and it is astonishing to me, except on the principle of Columbus and his egg, how I could have overlooked it and its solution. This problem is the tendency in organic beings descended from the same stock to diverge in character as they become modified. That they have diverged greatly is obvious from the manner in which species of all kinds can be classed under genera, genera under families, families under sub-orders and so forth; and I can remember the very spot in the road, whilst in my carriage, when to my joy the solution occurred to me; and this was long after I had come to Down. The solution, as I believe, is that the modified offspring of all dominant and increasing forms tend to become adapted to many and highly diversified places in the economy of nature. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gske4xxwshsa3fmjvtvqgzag))
		- **Note**: Charles Darwin recounts how he had overlooked a problem regarding the divergence of characteristics of organisms descended from the same stock until one day, while riding in a carriage, the solution suddenly occurred to him: the modified offspring of all dominant and increasing forms tend to become adapted to many and highly diverse places in nature.
	- An unverified hypothesis is of little or no value; but if anyone should hereafter be led to make observations by which some such hypothesis could be established, I shall have done good service, as an astonishing number of isolated facts can be thus connected together and rendered intelligible. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gske64gwyg8mn6wthte0dwv1))
		- **Tags**: #[[experimentation]]
		- **Note**: This passage from Charles Darwin's autobiography discusses the importance of connecting and making sense of facts through hypothesis. He expresses that an unverified hypothesis is useless, but if verified it could lead to a better understanding of the facts.