title:: The Religious Sentiment of Seneca – Episode 46 (highlights)
author:: [[Stoicism On Fire]]
full-title:: "The Religious Sentiment of Seneca – Episode 46"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/8c4c602d-7b37-47e1-a73f-aeb1f5096203

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- The Source of the Divine Mind in the Cosmos
	  
	  Summary:
	  Seneca argues for the existence of an inherent intelligence in the cosmos. The highest human good is achieved by living according to our human nature, which is rational because a portion of the divine dwells within us. This is a beautiful expression of a rational spirituality that is not beholden to a church hierarchy or divine scripture. Einstein did not believe in a personal god and he was not an advocate of organized religion. Nevertheless, he asserted that individuals of exceptional endowments could rise to a third stage of religious experience he called cosmic religion.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Such magnitude cannot stand upright without divinity to hold it up. In large part, then its existence is in that place from which it has come down. Letters, forty, one, four, five. So what is the source of this divinity which holds up the imminent and disciplined mind of this person? Wel seneca writes, even as the sun rays touch the earth and yet have their existence at their point of origin, so that great and sacred mind, that mind sent down to bring us nearer knowledge of the divine dwells indeed with us. And yet inheres, within its source, its reliance is there. And there are its aim and its objective though it mingles in our affairs, it does so as our better letters, forty, one for five. In other words, the godlike mind we see in this sage like person has its source in that great and sacred mind that permeates the cosmos. As pierre hada notes in his marvellous book, the inner citadel, the stoics thought it impossible that the universe could produce human ration aty unless the latter were already in some way present within the former. Many moderns gloss over passages like this because they consider them religious nonsense. However, seneca and the other stoics thought this conception of the cosmos the most reasonable inference from their observations of nature. Seneca is arguing for the existence of an inherent intelligence in the cosmos, and many modern tists agree. In response to an inquiry from a young girl, einstein wrote, every one who is seriously involved in the pursuit of science becomes convinced that some spirit is manifest in the laws of the universe, one that is vastly superior to that of man. In this way, the pursuit of science leads to a religious feeling of a special sort, which is surely quite different from the religiosity of some one more naive. Einstein did not believe in a personal god, and he was not an advocate of organized religion. Nevertheless, he asserted that individuals of exceptional endowments could rise to a third stage of religious experience he called cosmic religion, where the individual feels the futility of human desires and aims and the sublimity and marvellousor which reveal themselves both in nature and in the world of thought. Individual existence impresses him as a sort of prison and he wants to experience the universe as a single, significant whole. Einstein's definition of a cosmic religion is consistent with the theology and religious sentiment of the stoics, who called this intelligence within the cosmos logos, and considered it ine. For the stoics, a fragment of the same logos, rationality, which permeates and rationally orders the cosmos, also serves as our guiding principle, our hegamonicon, our rational mind. Thus, when we live according to nature, as the stoics prescribed, our rational faculty is in coherence with the divine rational mind, logos, which is permeating the cosmos. Seneca closes letter forty one with the assertion that the highest human good is achieved by living according to our human nature, which is rational, precisely because a portion of the divine dwells within us. This is a beautiful expression of a rational spirituality that is not beholden to a church hierarchy or divine scripture. ([Time 0:08:05](https://share.snipd.com/snip/33de7d41-e403-41af-b70e-899cd0d755d4))