title:: The Singapore Story (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Singapore Story"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-singapore-story/
document_note:: Lee Kuan Yew was an impressive man who overcame great odds and a very difficult situation to lay the foundation for what would one day become an economic powerhouse. He gained Singapore's independence from Malaysia in 1965 after much political, social and racial strife, and had to deceive Australia, New Zealand and the UK to be able to do so. He had to balance the budget with tough fiscal cuts, clean up Singapore, and guarantee all kids a spot in school to gain the support of the people. He was anti-British but realized that socialist ideals often don't work in practice, and was a mentor to many. Through his hard work and ambition, Singapore was able to become an independent nation and an economic powerhouse.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 18th, 2023]]
	- "The task of the leaders must be to provide or create for them [the populace] a strong framework within which they can learn, work hard, be productive and be rewarded accordingly. And this is not easy to achieve." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj06kbs7rr413sz1mpmdxkc))
	- "I had received an unforgettable lesson in decolonization, on how crucial it was to have social cohesion and capable, effective government to take power from the colonial authority. When the leader did not preserve the unity of the country by sharing power with the chiefs of the minority tribes, but excluded them, the system soon broke down. Worse, when misguided policies based on half-digested theories of socialism and redistribution of wealth were compounded by less than competent government, societies formerly held together by colonial power splintered, with appalling consequences." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsj074gdwmawxfptjp8s0f59))
		- **Note**: The author learned an important lesson about decolonization. To take power away from a colonial authority, it was very important to have a unified society with people who were good at making decisions and making things happen. If the leader did not treat the minority chiefs with respect and give them a voice in decision-making, then the country would quickly become divided and fall apart. If bad decisions were made, based on bad theories and without good leadership, then the country would be split apart and the results would be very bad.