title:: The Strategy of Conflict (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Strategy of Conflict"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-strategy-of-conflict/
document_note:: The text discusses Thomas Schelling's "strategy of conflict," which is the study of non-zero sum games. These games involve a mix of conflict and mutual dependence, and can include wars, threats, negotiations, criminal deterrence, and more. In these games, understanding the dependence of the outcome on the mutual expectations of the players is key. Tactics to increase success include keeping lines of communication open, finding mediators with prior understanding, and establishing trust through continuity. The main idea is to coordinate expectations, use tit for tat with forgiveness and quick retaliation when expectations are broken.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- **Bargaining - each party is guided by what they expect the other party will accept.** The coordination of expectations is analogues to the coordination of behavior when communication is cut off
	  
	  1.  **All about knowing, setting, understanding expectations. Coordination of expectations is the name of the game**
	  2.  **Tit for tat with forgiveness, quick retaliation, clear expectations** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw859q590tb367na5nsvfan))
		- **Note**: The Strategy of Conflict focuses on bargaining, which is the process of each party setting and understanding expectations of the other in order to reach an agreement. This coordination of expectations is similar to coordinating behavior when communication is absent. To be successful, it suggests using a tit-for-tat approach with quick retaliation and clear expectations.
	- The voluntary surrender of freedom is very powerful ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw85tmc2jxpxxpwzxkyzada))
	- Trust is often achieved simply by the continuity of the relation between parties and the recognition by each that what he might gain by cheating in a given instance is outweighed by the value of the tradition of trust that makes possible a long sequence of future agreement. **By the same token, "trust" may be achieved for a single discontinuous instance, if it can be divided into a succession of increments**
	  
	  1.  *Play iterated games whenever possible. If one-off, find a way to try to divide it into a succession of increments* ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw85x52ckxmgq5vdj3cp5q5))
		- **Tags**: #[[trust]]
		- **Note**: Trust is when two people are able to rely on each other, even if one has something to gain from the other. This trust can be built over time, as the two people become more familiar with each other and understand that cheating would not be worth the loss of trust in the future. Even if the two people don't know each other well, trust can be built if the situation can be broken down into smaller parts. To make sure trust can be built, it is important to try to play games or activities with each other multiple times, or if it's just one time, to break it down into smaller parts.
	- If the essence of a game o strategy is the dependence of each person's proper choice of action on what he expects the other to do, it may be useful to define a "strategic move" as follows: **A strategic move is one that influences the other person's choice, in a manner favorable to oneself, by affecting the other person's expectations on how one's self will behave. One constrains the partner's choice by constraining one's own behavior. The object is to set up for one's self and communicate persuasively to the other player a mode of behavior (including conditional responses to the other's behavior) that leaves the other a simple maximization problem whose solution for him is the optimum for one's self, and to destroy the other's ability to do the same...Hardly anything epitomizes strategic behavior in the mixed-motive game so much as the advantage of being able to adopt a mode of behavior that the other party will take for granted...In the mixed-motive game, one is interested in conveying the truth about his own behavior - if, indeed, he has succeeded in constraining his own behavior along lines that, when anticipated,** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsw87bk0hyx3d8cm0bqbpy3q))
		- **Note**: A strategic move is when you do something to influence the other person's decision in a way that helps you. You do this by changing the way they think you will act. You try to make them think of what would be the best choice for you and not for them. You also try to stop them from being able to do this to you. It's important to do things that the other person will think are expected of you if you want to be successful. In a game of mixed motives, it is important to be honest about how you will act so that the other person can predict it.