title:: The Inner Game of Tennis: The Classic Guide to the Mental Side of Peak Performance (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Inner Game of Tennis: The Classic Guide to the Mental Side of Peak Performance"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/the-inner-game-of-tennis/
document_note:: The Inner Game of Tennis is a classic guide to the mental side of peak performance, which focuses on overcoming obstacles like lapses in concentration, nervousness, self-doubt and self-condemnation. It promotes the art of relaxed concentration and suggests that the secret to winning any game lies in not trying too hard. It encourages players to let go of judgment and be aware of what is happening in order to achieve concentration, to have fun and to resolve conflicting desires. It also emphasizes the importance of imagery, being aware of thoughts, feelings, emotions, body, focus and more.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 19th, 2023]]
	- The development of inner skills is required, but it is interesting to note that if, while learning tennis, you begin to learn how to focus your attention and how to trust in yourself, you have learned something far more valuable than how to hit a forceful backhand. The backhand can be used to advantage only on a tennis court, but the skill of mastering the art of effortless concentration is invaluable in whatever you set your mind to. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskcdxjq0peaz36w1pjh6x68))
	- So it is with the greatest efforts in sports; they come when the mind is as still as a glass lake. Such moments have been called “peak experiences” by the humanistic psychologist Dr. Abraham Maslow. Researching the common characteristics of persons having such experiences, he reports the following descriptive phrases: “He feels more integrated” [the two selves are one], “feels at one with the experience,” “is relatively egoless” [quiet mind], “feels at the peak of his powers,” “fully functioning,” “is in the groove,” “effortless,” “free of blocks, inhibitions, cautions, fears, doubts, controls, reservations, self-criticisms, brakes,” “he is spontaneous and more creative,” “is most here-now,” “is non-striving, non-needing, non-wishing … he just is.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskce87znqvx9y50sp8q7520))
		- **Tags**: #[[flow]]
		- **Note**: Abraham Maslow's research on peak experiences reveals that they involve feeling integrated, at one with the experience, and free of inhibitions and doubts. Additionally, they involve feeling at the peak of one's powers, spontaneous, creative, and present in the moment.
	- In short, “getting it together” requires slowing the mind. Quieting the mind means less thinking, calculating, judging, worrying, fearing, hoping, trying, regretting, controlling, jittering or distracting. The mind is still when it is totally here and now in perfect oneness with the action and the actor. It is the purpose of the Inner Game to increase the frequency and the duration of these moments, quieting the mind by degrees and realizing thereby a continual expansion of our capacity to learn and perform. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskcfb6fp031yqpwg62ettxg))
		- **Note**: The Inner Game of Tennis is a guide to the mental side of peak performance, focusing on the importance of quieting the mind to achieve success. It encourages reducing negative thinking, worrying, and trying, and instead focus on being present in the moment and being "in perfect oneness with the action and the actor". The purpose of this guide is to help increase the frequency and duration of these moments of peacefulness, leading to a greater capacity to learn and perform.
	- What I have tried to illustrate is that there is a natural learning process which operates within everyone—if it is allowed to. This process is waiting to be discovered by all those who do not know of its existence. There is no need to take my word for it; it can be discovered for yourself if it hasn’t been already. If it has been experienced, trust it. (This is the subject of chapter 4.) To discover this natural learning process, it is necessary to let go of the old process of correcting faults; that is, it is necessary to let go of judgment and see what happens. Will your strokes develop under the effect of noncritical attention or won’t they? Test this. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskcgcvh2zr6m6t4a74jn4z5))
		- **Note**: The author is saying that everyone has something inside them that can help them learn and become better at things. To find this natural learning process, it's important to not worry so much about if you're doing something wrong or right. Instead, try it out and see what happens. Will your strokes become better if you don't judge yourself too harshly? Try it and see!
	- •   One caution about “the zone”: it cannot be controlled by Self 1. I have seen many articles that claim to provide a technique for “playing in the zone every time.” Forget it! This is a setup. It’s an age-old trap. Self 1 likes the idea of playing in the zone, especially the results that usually occur. So Self 1 will try to grasp onto almost anything that promises to take you to what everyone agrees is a wonderful place. But there is one catch; the only way to get there is to leave Self 1 behind. So as long as you let Self 1 be the one that takes you there, it will be there too and you will not be able to go into the zone. If you do, even for a moment, Self 1 will say, “Good, I got there,” and you will be out again.
	  •   Another way to look at the zone is that it comes as a gift. It is not a gift you can demand of yourself, but one you can ask for. How do you ask? By making your effort? What is your effort? Your effort depends on your understanding. But I would say it always involves an effort to focus and an effort to let go of Self 1 control. As trust increases, Self 1 quiets, Self 2 becomes more conscious and more present, enjoyment increases and the gifts are being given. If you are willing to give credit where credit is due and not think you “know” how to do it, the gifts are apt to be more frequent and sustainable.
	  •   I used to think that whatever was present in that state would leave me, was ephemeral. Now I know that it is always there and it is only I who leave. When I look at a young child I realize it is there all the time. As the child grows, there is more to distract the mind, and it is harder to recognize. But it, Self 2, may be the only thing which has been there and will be there your entire life. Thoughts and thinking come and go, but the child self, the true self, is there and will be there as long as our breath is. To enjoy it, to appreciate it, is the gift of focus. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskcjx5w2g0pbs54wqanmp7n))
		- **Note**: The zone is a special place where you can do things really well. It's hard to get there because you can't control it yourself. There are lots of articles that say they can help you get there, but you should ignore them. The only way to get to the zone is to let go of control and let something else take you there. Once you're in the zone, it's important to appreciate it and enjoy it, because it won't last forever and it's hard to get back there. Kids can usually get to the zone easier than adults because they are not distracted by other things.
	- Why does the surfer wait for the big wave? The answer was simple, and it unraveled the confusion that surrounds the true nature of competition. The surfer waits for the big wave because he values the challenge it presents. He values the obstacles the wave puts between him and his goal of riding the wave to the beach. Why? Because it is those very obstacles, the size and churning power of the wave, which draw from the surfer his greatest effort. It is only against the big waves that he is required to use all his skill, all his courage and concentration to overcome; only then can he realize the true limits of his capacities. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskcnwzwxnsd7thmn4wc4w1e))
		- **Note**: Surfer waits for wave 🌊 
		  to challenge and test his skill 🤸‍♂️
		  only then true limits met 🔥
	- Some great zen principles as it applies to tennis - being present, letting go and having fun, being mindful and aware and other skills which are vital in the path to mastery in any arena. Using imagery, being aware of your thoughts, feelings, emotions, body, focus and more we're also some key concepts discussed. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskcmcecfc70hbxz8fqkvjam))
		- **Note**: Zen of tennis: 🎾
		  Focus, be present, be aware. 🧠
		  Let go and have fun. 🤗