title:: The Pathless Path —  How to Recreate Your Life and Career in 2023 - Paul Millerd (highlights)
author:: [[Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal]]
full-title:: "The Pathless Path —  How to Recreate Your Life and Career in 2023 - Paul Millerd"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/76419eb2-0fca-44fc-b522-10b198945c5d

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Mar 6th, 2023]]
	- The Importance of Experimenting
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Figure out what you value in your free time., * Try out different activities to figure out what you enjoy., * Figure out if the activity is energizing or a chore.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  So coming back to our sort of anchoring three part framework of like step one figure out what you value step two figure out how much it costs and step three figure out if you're willing to make that trade. So within figure out what you value we talked about like the shower test or the free time test what do you find yourself drawn to in your free time. I love this idea of yours of like ship learn quit or that ship learn quit try something out. Ship quit learn that's one. So try something out you know thinking like oh maybe I want to be some kind of youtuber. Okay cool try making videos for four weeks once a week and see how you feel. Learn from that. And the more of these experiments you run on yourself the more of a barometer you get for what are the things that I value and one way of doing that is to figure out did this thing give me energy. And I feel almost effortlessly incentivized to continue or did it feel like a chore. And I guess if I'm if I think of people I know who say that they don't really have any hobbies and they don't really know what they value they tend to have done very few experiments of this kind they'll have ideas in their head of like oh maybe it would be cool to do XYZ but then they won't they won't try it out because and you know this is I guess the kind of the way we're taught is that like. It has to be perfect. Yeah it has to be perfect and it has to be long term it has to be sustainable. It's like oh maybe I want to be a youtuber but I can't imagine what that looks like for the next 10 years. It's like don't worry about the next 10 years I should get I should take this advice myself. Don't worry about the next 10 years just try it for now try it for a little bit and see if it energizes you and if it does then that gives you a decent data point that is something that you potentially value. So other than what do you what do you find yourself doing in your spare time and run experiments and see what vibes with you. Do you have any other strategies for helping helping people figure out what they actually value in life.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I guess that's a big question. Yeah I mean what what you value I think reflecting asking the hard questions we all know the hard questions we need to ask. It's just really sitting down and like grappling with our answers. Sometimes we don't like our own answers we hide from them. I think in terms of like finding things you actually want to do what I found is that if you give people enough free time and this is why I think like finding a way to take a one month sabbatical in your life is so vital to like reclaiming the energy in your life. People will just start doing stuff in like 99% of cases of people I talk to they they start to oh wow I literally forgot I liked playing this instrument as a kid and I just started doing it. And like you hear these stories over and over again. I started volunteering at a local garden I was just like walking around my neighborhood and I like remembered I like engaging in my local community. So it's like we all have this like I don't think this is a hard thing to do. I think the thing that's hard is we often have things that out compete or zap our energy. And the thing that's worth noting is like this is why it's so important just to like get reps of experiments. Like this is why I love helping people to like just start stuff. Do 100 tweets do five posts do five YouTube videos like even just do one just to realize you can do stuff in the world. We don't need permission anymore. We have more freedom to do more things than like at any time before. It's such an amazing time to be alive. And then these things compound like I see even you like I feel like you're launching and trying new things like all the time. And that's that makes so much sense because you realize like the more experiments you do like you constantly want to like keep learning and like keep finding those new spaces those new ideas those new avenues those new energy slip streams. Yeah. ([Time 0:52:23](https://share.snipd.com/snip/6474634b-8db9-483e-bc32-46786905fcf3))