title:: The Master and Margarita (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "The Master and Margarita"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/master-and-margarita/
document_note:: The Master and Margarita is a satire written by Blas Moros aimed at the oppressive Stalin-era Russian regime of the 1930s. It is an intricate interweaving of three stories to highlight and satirize the difficult and often hypocritical situations Russians had to live with. The novel explores themes such as trust in poetry and imagination over terror, cowardice as a vice, equating artistic mastery with saintliness, and using theatricality to portray terror. It also touches on themes of power, catastrophe, and peace. Overall, the novel is a fun and worthwhile read, and analysis of it can only make it richer.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 19th, 2023]]
	- "Bulgakov' gentle irony is a warning against the mistake, more common in our time than we might think, of equating artistic mastery with a sort of saintliness, or, in Kierkegaard's terms, of confusing the aesthetic with the ethical." - from intro ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskdfdt336283y1aytk4f3fz))
		- **Note**: This passage from the introduction to "The Master and Margarita" warns against the mistake of equating artistic mastery with saintliness, suggesting instead that the aesthetic and the ethical should be viewed as separate. The author uses gentle irony to make this point.
	- "Once terror is identified with the world, it becomes invisible. Bulgakov's portrayal of Moscow under Stalin's terror is remarkable precisely for its weightless, circus-like theatricality and lack of pathos." ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskdeexe7gx5m53edw268zgv))
		- **Note**: In "The Master and Margarita", Bulgakov portrays Moscow under Stalin's terror as having a circus-like theatricality and a lack of pathos. He suggests that, when terror is accepted as a part of the world, it becomes invisible.
	- 'Listen to the stillness,' Margarita said to the Master, and the sand rustled under her bare feet, 'listen and enjoy what you were not given in life - Peace. Look, there ahead is your eternal home, which you have been given as a reward. I can already see the Venetian window and the Reising vibe, it climbs right up to the roof. Here is your home, your eternal home. I know that in evenings you will be visited by those you love, those who interest you and who will never trouble you...you will fall asleep, having a smile on your lips. Sleep will strengthen you, you will reason wisely. And you will no longer be able to drive me away. I will watch over your sleep.' ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskdgj3f5g6wq13s0ctpwr4y))
		- **Note**: In the text, Margarita is comforting the Master, telling him that he has been rewarded with an eternal home with a Venetian window and a Reising vibe that goes right up to the roof. She reassures him that he will be visited by those he loves and interests him, and he will be able to sleep peacefully and be strengthened by it. Margarita promises that she will always be there to watch over him.