title:: This Will Make You Smarter: New Scientific Concepts to Improve Your Thinking by John Brockman (highlights)
author:: [[The Rabbit Hole]]
full-title:: "This Will Make You Smarter: New Scientific Concepts to Improve Your Thinking by John Brockman"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/this-will-make-you-smarter/
document_note:: This text discusses a variety of scientific concepts and their practical applications. It discusses double-blind control experiments, the scientific method, thought experiments, nexus causality, self-serving bias, the name game, truth as a model, failure liberating success, holism, scale analysis, keystone consumers, the Pareto principle, expanding in-groups, life as a self-replicating hierarchy of levels, information flow, negative capability, systemic equilibrium, recursive structure, collective intelligence and paradoxes. These concepts are intended to improve thinking, help us understand complex systems and avoid making bad decisions.
tags:: #[[mental models]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- The Mediocrity Principle  
	  
	  1.  The mediocrity principle simply states that you aren’t special. The universe does not revolve around you; this planet isn’t privileged in any unique way; your country is not the product of divine destiny; your existence isn’t the product of directed, intentional fate. Most of what happens is just a consequence of natural, universal laws – laws that apply everywhere and to everything, with no special exemptions or amplifications for your benefit…We look for general principles that apply to the universe as a whole first, and those explain much of the story; and then we look for the quirks and exceptions that led to the details. It’s a strategy that succeeds and is useful in gaining a deeper knowledge. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnv5t8as1qcrfedxgmeq9m1))
		- **Note**: The Mediocrity Principle states that we are not special and our universe is not privileged in any unique way. Our existence is not the product of intentional fate, but rather a consequence of natural universal laws that apply equally everywhere. To gain a deeper understanding of the universe, we should first look for general principles that apply to it, and then look for the quirks and exceptions that make up the details.
	- Double-Blind Control Experiment (Richard Dawkins)
	  
	  1.  We would learn not to generalize from anecdotes
	  2.  We would learn how to assess the likelihood that apparently important effects might have happened by chance alone
	  3.  We would learn how extremely difficult it is to eliminate subjective bias, and that subjective bias does not imply dishonesty or venality of any kind. This lesson goes deeper. It has the salutary effect of undermining respect for authority and respect for personal opinion
	  4.  We would learn not to be seduced by homeopaths and other quacks and charlatans, who would consequently be put out of business
	  5.  We would learn critical and skeptical habits of thought more generally, which not only would improve our cognitive toolkit but might save the world ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnv4w45xekktw86t9sfp5r9))
		- **Note**: The double-blind control experiment proposed by Richard Dawkins would teach us how to be more critical and skeptical thinkers, not to generalize from anecdotes, how to assess the likelihood of effects happening by chance, and how to avoid being taken advantage of by quacks. It would also improve our cognitive toolkit and potentially save the world.
	- Thought Experiment
	  
	  1.  It involves setting up an imagined piece of apparatus and running a simple experiment with it in your mind, for the purpose of proving or disproving a hypothesis. In many cases, a thought experiment is the only approach. An actual experiment to examine retrieval of information falling into a black hole cannot be carried out. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnv5cn360bykm5htp4p7b28))
		- **Note**: This text discusses the concept of a thought experiment, which involves running an imaginary experiment in one's mind for the purpose of proving or disproving a hypothesis. It is often the only approach available when an actual experiment cannot be carried out.
	- Nexus Causality
	  
	  1.  For many things, it is more accurate to represent outcomes as caused by an understanding, or nexus, of factors ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnv6cs0bbdn9wb3dz0kset6))
		- **Note**: Nexus Causality suggests that outcomes of many things should be seen as the result of a combination of factors, rather than being attributed to a single cause. In other words, a nexus of factors can contribute to a given outcome, and this should be taken into account when attempting to explain it.
	- Self-Serving Bias
	  
	  1.  Most of us have a good reputation with ourselves. Accepting more responsibility for success than for failure, for good deeds than for bad ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnv76nkd8env4k2d38phs9b))
		- **Note**: Self-Serving Bias is the tendency for people to take more credit for their successes than their failures, assigning more responsibility for good deeds than for bad.
	- Bias is the nose for the story
	  
	  1.  Bias, in the form of expectation, inclination, and anticipatory hunches, helped load the dice in our favor and for that reason is hardwired into our thinking. Bias is an intuition – a sensitivity, a receptiveness – that acts as a lens on all our perceptions ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnv7g0qvm63c955kf9ga04y))
		- **Note**: Bias is a form of intuition that acts as a filter for our perceptions. It is hardwired into our thinking and can be helpful in making decisions, as it provides an expectation, inclination, and anticipatory hunches.
	- Control your spotlight
	  
	  1.  Willpower is inherently weak and children who tried to postpone their treat – gritting their teeth in the face of temptation – soon lost the battle, often within thirty seconds. Instead, Mischel discovered something interesting when he studied the tiny percentage of kids who could successfully wait for the second treat. Without exception, these “high delayers” all relied on the same mental strategy: they found a way to keep themselves from thinking about the treat, directing their gaze away from the yummy marshmallows. This is the skill of “strategic allocation of attention,” and Mischel argues that it’s the skill underlying self-control. Too often, we assume that willpower is about having strong moral fiber. But that’s wrong. Willpower is really about properly directing the spotlight of attention, learning how to control that short list of thoughts in working memory. It’s about realizing that if we’re thinking about the marshmallow, we’re going to eat it, which is why we need to look away. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnv8wkksv9x4d7x9f6r0jpa))
		- **Note**: In the text, John Brockman discusses the concept of willpower, arguing that it is not about moral fiber, but about controlling and properly directing one's attention. He uses the example of the marshmallow test, which found that children who successfully postponed their treat did so by directing their gaze away from it, a strategy known as "strategic allocation of attention". This demonstrates that willpower is about controlling the thoughts in working memory, and understanding that if one focuses on the temptation, it is likely to be indulged in.
	- The focusing illusion
	  
	  1.  Income is an important determinant in people’s satisfaction with their lives, but it is less important than most people think. If everyone had the same income, the differences among people in life satisfaction could be less than 5% ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnva26s8pwarzhvhe7faj6g))
		- **Note**: This document discusses the focusing illusion, which is the idea that income is an important factor in life satisfaction, but not as important as people think. It suggests that if everyone had the same income, the differences in life satisfaction would be less than 5%.
	- Truth is a model
	  
	  1.  Bugs are features – violations of expectations are opportunities to refine them. And decisions are made by evaluating what works better, not by invoking received wisdom.
	  2.  abies who keep babbling turn into scientists who formulate and test theories for a living. But it doesn’t require professional training to make mental models – we’re born with those skills. What’s needed is not displacing them with certainty of absolute truths that inhibit the exploration of ideas. Making sense of anything means making models that can predict outcomes and accommodate observations. Truth is a model ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvan0ayadryp81p4nb3vh4))
		- **Note**: This text discusses the idea that truth is a model, which suggests that instead of relying on received wisdom, decisions should be made by evaluating what works better. This text also suggests that everyone has the skills to make mental models, and that this is an important part of making sense of anything. Making models that can predict outcomes and accommodate observations is the key to understanding truth.
	- Holism
	  
	  1.  The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Perhaps the most impressive is that carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorous, iron, and a few other elements, mixed in just the right way, yield life. And life has emergent properties not presenting or predictable from these constituent parts. There is a kind of awesome synergy between the parts. Nicholas Christakis ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvb0x42tztkqvhtgk7gvjs))
		- **Note**: Holism states that a whole is greater than the sum of its parts. This concept is exemplified by the fact that the combination of a few elements, such as carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorous, and iron, can yield life, which has emergent properties not present or predictable from its constituent parts. This synergy between the parts is an impressive phenomenon.
	- •   [[Cognitive Load]]
	    1.  The amount of information entering our [[consciousness]] at any instant is referred to as our cognitive load. When our cognitive load exceeds the capacity of our working memory, our intellectual abilities take a hit. Information zips into and out of our mind so quickly that we never gain a good mental grip on it. The information vanishes before we’ve had an opportunity to transfer it into our long-term memory and weave it into our knowledge. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvbe0b7dck1j3q5p9v1cb0))
		- **Note**: Cognitive load refers to the amount of information entering our consciousness at any given time. When our cognitive load exceeds the capacity of our working memory, our intellectual abilities are affected as the information enters and exits our mind too quickly to be transferred into long-term memory or woven into our knowledge.
	- Think bottom up, not top down
	  
	  1.  One of the most general shorthand abstractions that, if adopted, would improve the cognitive toolkit of humanity is to think bottom up, not top down. Almost everything important that happens in both nature and society happens from the bottom-up, not top down. Water is a bottom-up, self-organized emergent property of hydrogen and oxygen. Life is a bottom-up, self-organized emergent property of organic molecules that coalesced into protein chains through nothing more than the input of energy into the system of Earth’s early environment. The complex eukaryotic cells of which we are made are themselves the product of much simpler prokaryotic cells that merged together from the bottom up, in a process of symbiosis that happens naturally when genomes are merged between two organisms. Evolution itself is a bottom-up process or organisms just trying to make a living and get their genes into the next generation; out of that simple process emerges the diverse array of complex life we see today. Most people, however, see the world from the top down instead of the bottom up. The reason is that our brains evolved to find design in the world, and our experience with designed objects is that they have a designer (us), whom we consider to be intelligent. So, most people intuitively sense that anything in nature that looks designed must be so from the top down, not the bottom up. Bottom-up reasoning is counterintuitive. This is why so many people believe that life was designed and that countries should be ruled from the top down
	  2.  For the past 500 years, humanity has gradually but ineluctably transitioned from top-down to bottom-up systems, for the simple reason that both information and people want to be free ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvbthjzs4k8njc8y36z0dn))
		- **Note**: This text is advocating for the adoption of bottom-up thinking over top-down thinking. It argues that almost everything important that happens in nature and society occurs from the bottom-up, not top down. Examples such as water, life, evolution, and even complex eukaryotic cells are given as evidence of this. Furthermore, the text suggests that people tend to see the world from the top down due to an evolutionary trait to find design in the world. Lastly, it is noted that over the past 500 years, humanity has moved from top-down to bottom-up systems as both information and people seek freedom.
	- Constraint satisfaction
	  
	  1.  A constraint is a condition that must be taken into account when solving a problem or making a decision, and “constraint satisfaction” is the process of meeting the relevant constraints. The key idea is that often there are only a few ways to satisfy a full set of constraints simultaneously
	  2.  In general, the more constraints, the fewer the possible ways of satisfying them simultaneously. And this is especially the case when there are many “strong” constraints’ strong constraint is like the positioning of the end tables: there are very few ways to satisfy it. In constant, a “weak” constraint such as the location of the headboard, can be satisfied in many ways. Constraint satisfaction is pervasive in part because it does not “require” perfect solutions. It’s up to you to decide what the most important constraints are and just how many of the constraints in general must be satisfied (and how well). Moreover, constraint satisfaction need not be linear: you can appreciate the entire set of constraints at the same time, throwing them into your mental stewpot and letting them simmer. And this process need not be conscious. “Mulling it over” seems to consist of engaging in all-but-unconscious constraints satisfaction. Finally, much creativity emerges from constraint satisfaction. Many new recipes have been created when chefs discovered that only certain ingredients were available – and they thus were either forced to substitute those missing or come up with anew dish. Creativity can also emerge when you decide to change, exclude, or add a constraint. Einstein had one of his major breakthroughs when he realized that time need not pass at a constant rate. Perhaps paradoxically, adding constraints can actually enhance creativity – if a task is too open or unstructured, it may be so unconstrained that it’s difficult to devise any solution. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvc9v1pwe9whxaw5zq4dxc))
		- **Note**: Constraint satisfaction is the process of meeting constraints when solving a problem or making a decision. The more constraints, the fewer the possible ways of satisfying them. It does not require perfect solutions and it can be used for creativity. Mulling over a problem consists of unconsciously engaging in constraint satisfaction. Creativity can also be enhanced by adding constraints, as it provides structure to the problem.
	- Scale analysis
	  
	  1.  Nonlinearity is a hallmark of the real world. It occurs any time that outputs of a system cannot be expressed in terms of a sum of inputs, each multiplied by a simple constant – a rare occurrence in the grand scheme of things. Unpredictable variability, tipping points, sudden changes in behavior, hysteresis – all are frequent symptoms of a nonlinear world. One of the most robust bridges between the linear and the non-linear, the simple and the complex, is scale analysis, the dimensional analysis of physical systems. It is throughs scale analysis that we can often make sense of complex nonlinear phenomena in terms of simpler models. At its core reside two questions. The first asks what quantities matter most to the problem at hand (which tends to be less obvious than one would like). The second asks what the expected magnitude and – importantly – dimensions of such quantities are. This second question is particularly important, as it captures the simple yet fundamental point that physical behavior should be invariant to the units we use to measure quantities.
	  2.  Of course, anytime a complicated system is translated to a simpler one, information is lost. Scale analysis is a tool only as insightful as the person using it. By itself, it does not provide answers and is no substitute for deeper analysis. But it offers a powerful lens through which to view reality and to understand “the order of things” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvmwc6h12tpr13n7hcb2qa))
		- **Note**: Scale analysis is a tool used to make sense of complex nonlinear phenomena by translating them into simpler models. It works by asking two questions: what quantities are most important to the problem, and what is the expected magnitude and dimensions of these quantities? This tool is useful as it captures the point that physical behavior should be invariant to the units used to measure it, however it is limited in that it does not provide answers and does not substitute for deeper analysis.
	- The expanding in-group
	  
	  1.  The phenomenon of hybrid vigor in offspring, which is also called heterozygote advantage, derives from a cross between dissimilar parents. It is well established experimentally, and the benefits of mingling disparate gene pools are seen not only in improved physical but also improved mental development. Intermarriage therefore promises cognitive benefits
	  2.  Life is a self-replicating hierarchy of levels ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvmf5qcnxyjr7jjtf0wdqa))
		- **Note**: This document explores the concept of hybrid vigor, or heterozygote advantage, which states that offspring produced from parents of different genetic backgrounds will experience improved physical and mental development. It also suggests that intermarriage can lead to cognitive benefits. Additionally, the document proposes that life can be seen as a self-replicating hierarchy of levels.
	- The Pareto Principle
	  
	  1.  Also known as the 80/20 rule, Zipf’s law, the power-law distribution, winner-take-all, but the basic shape of the underlying distribution is always the same: the richest or busiest or most connected participants in a system will account for much, much more wealth or activity than average. Furthermore, the pattern is recursive. Within the top 20 of a system that exhibits a Pareto distribution, the top 20% of that slice will also account for disproportionately more of whatever is being measured, and so on.
	  2.  The top 1% of the population controls 35% of the wealth
	  3.  The recursive 80/20 weighting means that the averages far from the middle. This in turn means that in such systems most people are below average, a pattern encapsulated in the old economics joke, “Bill Gates walks into a bar and makes everybody a millionaire, on average.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvcwe7wn37m0j1ynp0716z))
		- **Note**: The Pareto Principle, also known as the 80/20 rule, states that the richest or busiest or most connected participants in a system will account for a disproportionate amount of wealth or activity compared to the average. The top 1% of the population controls 35% of the wealth, and this recursive 80/20 weighting means that in such systems, most people are below average. This is illustrated by the old economics joke that "Bill Gates walks into a bar and makes everybody a millionaire, on average."
	- Systemic equilibrium
	  
	  1.  The second law of thermodynamics states that, over time, a closed system will become more homogenous, eventually reaching systemic equilibrium. It is not a question of whether a system will reach equilibrium; it is only a question of when a system will reach equilibrium. Living on a single planet, we are all participants in a single physical system that has only one direction – toward systemic equilibrium. This goes for food, water, intellectual resources, and more ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvm28yh8psqm1ar01wfyrk))
		- **Note**: The Second Law of Thermodynamics states that all closed systems will eventually reach systemic equilibrium over time. This process applies to all resources on Earth, such as food, water, and intellectual resources, and the end goal is for everything to become homogenous. Living on one planet, we are all part of this single physical system and are ultimately headed for systemic equilibrium.
	- Collective intelligence
	  
	  1.  Human achievement is entirely a networking phenomenon. It is by putting brains together through the division of labor – through trade and specialization – that human society stumbled upon a way to raise the living standards, carrying capacity, technological virtuosity, and knowledge base of the species. By sharing and combining the results through exchange, people become capable of doing things they do not even understand ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvdbmdadkr3265x4kkwscj))
		- **Note**: Collective intelligence is an observation that human achievement is enabled by networking and the division of labor, leading to increased living standards, carrying capacity, technological advances, and knowledge. This is made possible by the exchange and combination of results, allowing people to do things they do not understand.
	- The base rate
	  
	  1.  Whenever a statistician wants to predict the likelihood of some event based on the available evidence, there are two main sources of information that have to be taken into account: the evidence itself, for which a reliability figure has to be calculated; and the likelihood of the event calculated purely in terms of relative incidence. The second figure is the base rate
	  2.  Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnveca6sgw3e8qrzxargz61))
		- **Note**: The base rate is an important concept for statisticians when predicting the likelihood of an event based on the available evidence. It is the relative incidence of the event calculated without the evidence itself, the reliability of which must also be taken into account. It is important to remember that absence of evidence is not evidence of absence.
	- Path dependence
	  
	  1.  The fact that often something that seems normal or inevitable today began with a choice that made sense at a particular time in the past but survived despite the eclipse of its justification, because, once it had been established, external factors discouraged going into reverse to try other alternatives. The paradigm example is the seemingly illogical arrangement of letters on typewriter keyboard. Why not just have the letters in alphabetical order, or arrange them so that the most frequently occurring ones are under the strongest fingers? In fact, the first typewriter tended to jam when typed on too quickly, so its inventor deliberately concocted an arrangement that put “A” under the ungainly little finger. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvdn3esaecd43twsha1vwc))
		- **Note**: Path dependence is the idea that something which is seen as normal or inevitable today may have started from a choice made in the past which made sense at the time, but has continued despite its original justification no longer being relevant. An example of this is the arrangement of letters on a typewriter keyboard, which was intentionally made to slow down typing to reduce jamming, rather than be in alphabetical order or arranged for convenience.
	- Ecology
	  
	  1.  We now increasingly view life as a profoundly complex web like system with information running in all directions, and instead of a single hierarchy we see an infinity of nested and codependent hierarchies – and the complexity of all this is, in and of itself, creative. We no longer need the idea of superior intelligence outside the system; the dense field of intersecting intelligences is fertile enough to account for all the incredible beauty of “creation.” ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvkqardxsmmhr6t4tq4xvm))
		- **Note**: This text discusses the concept of ecology, suggesting that life is far more complex than previously thought and is composed of an infinite number of nested and codependent hierarchies. Rather than relying on a single hierarchy or an outside source of superior intelligence, the dense field of intersecting intelligences is seen as the source of the beauty of "creation".
	- The paradox
	  
	  1.  Paradoxes arise when one or more convincing truths contradict each other, clash with other convincing truths, or violate unshakeable intuitions. They are frustrating, yet beguiling. Many see virtue in avoiding, glossing over, or dismissing them. Instead we should seek them out. If we find one, sharpen it, push it into the extreme, and hope that the resolution will reveal itself, for with that resolution will invariably come a dose of Truth.
	  2.  Nature appears to contradict itself with the utmost rarity, and so a paradox can be an opportunity for us to lay bare our cherished assumptions and discover which of them we must let go. But a good paradox can take us further, to reveal that not just the assumptions but the very modes of thinking we used in creating the paradox must be replaced. Particles and waves? Not truth, just convenient models. The same number of integers as perfect squares of integers? Not crazy, though you might be, if you invent cardinality. The list goes on. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvjhf4nbp9e2dy8nbp1jf0))
		- **Note**: This text discusses the concept of paradoxes, which occur when two or more convincing truths contradict each other or clash with other truths. It encourages readers to not avoid or gloss over paradoxes, but to seek them out and sharpen them in order to discover the underlying truth. It suggests that paradoxes can be an opportunity to discover which assumptions we must let go of and can also take us further to reveal that the modes of thinking we used to create the paradox must be replaced. It also provides examples of paradoxes to demonstrate this concept.
	- Swiss Cheese model
	  
	  1.  Losses occur only if all controls fail and the holes in the Swiss cheese align ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvjw63mfe474gt6n75ep8t))
		- **Note**: The Swiss Cheese model is a concept used to explain why accidents occur, despite the presence of multiple safety controls. According to this model, an accident can only happen when all of the safety controls fail and the "holes" in the Swiss cheese align, allowing the loss to occur.
	- Entanglement
	  
	  1.  Entanglement is spooky action at a distance. In quantum physics, two particles are entangled when a change in one particle is immediately associated with a change in the other particle. Here comes the spooky part; we can separate our “entangled buddies” as far as we can, and they will remain entangled. A change in one is instantly reflected in the other, even though they are physical far apart! ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvk8rzgtaxzvs0pns0zrm8))
		- **Note**: Entanglement is a phenomenon in quantum physics where two particles are connected, so that a change in one particle is immediately reflected in the other, even if they are physically distant from each other. This is known as "spooky action at a distance".
	- The Einstellung Effect
	  
	  1.  We constantly experience it when trying to solve a problem by pursuing solutions that have worked for us in the past, instead of evaluating and addressing the new problem on its own terms. Thus, whereas we may eventually solve the problem, we may be wasting an opportunity to do so in a more rapid, effective, and resourceful manner. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvhv66vbe8tgh1naxvew30))
		- **Note**: The Einstellung Effect refers to the tendency we have to rely on solutions that have worked for us in the past when trying to solve a new problem, instead of evaluating the new problem on its own terms. This can result in us eventually solving the problem, but at the cost of wasting time and resources that could have been used more efficiently.
	- Phase and Scale Transitions
	  
	  1.  Phase transition is a change of state in a physical system, such as liquid to gas. The concept has since been applied in a variety of academic circles to describe other types of transformation, from social (think hunter-gatherer to farmer) or statistical (think abrupt changes inn algorithm performance as parameters change) but has not yet emerged as part of the common lexicon. One interesting aspect of the phase transition is that it describes a shift to a state seemingly unrelated to the previous one and hence provides a model for phenomena that challenge our intuition. With knowledge of water only as a liquid, who would have imagined a conversion to gas with the application of heat?
	  2.  Scale transitions are unexpected outcomes resulting from increases in scale. For example, increases in the number of people interacting gin a system can produce unforeseen outcomes: the operation of markets at large scales is often counterintuitive. Think of the restrictive effect that rent-control laws can have on the supply of affordable rental housing, or how minimum-wage jobs can reduce the availability of low-wage jobs ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvhcx0vgb8qz7fvdnwvt6j))
		- **Note**: Phase and Scale Transitions are changes of state in a physical system, such as liquid to gas, or social, such as hunter-gatherer to farmer. Scale transitions are unexpected outcomes resulting from increases in scale, such as the restrictive effect that rent-control laws can have on the supply of affordable rental housing, or how minimum-wage jobs can reduce the availability of low-wage jobs. These concepts have been applied in a variety of academic circles, but have not yet emerged as part of the common lexicon.
	- Statistically significant
	  
	  1.  This means that the results are unlikely to be due by chance, the results themselves may or may not be important ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnvh0jejyvbrstbqx386389))
		- **Note**: Statistically significant means that the results of an experiment or study are unlikely to be caused by chance and could indicate a real effect. However, the results themselves may or may not be important.