title:: Tiffany Jenkins on Plunder, Museums, and Marbles (highlights)
author:: [[EconTalk]]
full-title:: "Tiffany Jenkins on Plunder, Museums, and Marbles"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/112d80b0-bf01-43e7-bd9c-490bc67fc412

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 19th, 2023]]
	- The Problem I Have With Virtue Signaling
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* The present versus the past is a difficult question to answer, as the past is not always accurately portrayed in the present., * The problem with virtue signaling is that it often excludes real change, instead of promoting it., * The Museum of the Native American Indian in America exemplifies the problem of virtue signaling, as it is all loaded onto culture and driven by its political purpose rather than the interests of Native Americans.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  I'm confused about your argument about the present versus the past. Again, I grew up in the 1950s, 1960s America, where, you know, cowboys and Indians, there were good guys and bad guys, and certainly the, some sort of reckoning has been made, I don't think it's very effective or very well done with the treatment of Native Americans in the United States. So I think that's, I would say we've not, we've ignored the past, we've swung toward a different vision of the past in the cultural mainstream that it's almost this one-sided in some settings, not this one, but in many settings that, that's not particularly accurate either, but at least it's a voice that gets heard that didn't get heard before. The part that I, that resonated with me in your book, and I think you said this, certainly it's a theme, what they said explicitly or not, is that, you know, the people who stand up at conferences and begin by announcing that they apologize for the fact that the land that, that they are standing on, where the campus was established, or the museum was established once belonged to, say, Native Americans or some other, or an Aboriginal group in the case of Australia, that this has, you could argue whether it's good or bad, but it appears to be a gesture that allows people to avoid taking responsibility of the present, where, where, where the treatment of, of certainly Native Americans in the United States is, is still deeply troubling. I'm not talking about day-to-day racism, I'm talking about government policy, it is, is deeply troubling. And the real, the problem I have with virtue signaling isn't the, the performative part of it, it's the performative part of it to the exclusion of real change. So I think that's, that's the problem I have with, with that. I think you agree with that, do you?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Yeah, no, I, I do very much so. I think that's certainly the case here as well. And it was notable that it was a Labour government that turned culture to solve social problems, rather than government. So it said these, these centers, centers for social inclusion, museums and galleries. And this was a, this was a government which, you know, has, we have seen rising inequality and in a way, the retreat of the state and the government and the political sphere from solving social problems. And I think certainly that's, that's happened. Let me try and explain what I mean, because it's quite hard to try and tackle it. I think if you look at the Museum of the Native American Indian in America.
	  
	  Speaker 2
	  It's in Washington, DC on the, on the mall. On the mall.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  In a way, it's definitely progress from the exhibits that you talk about in the 50s. There's no data about it. In no way am I saying we need to go back to the way things were. But I think two things have happened. So I'd like to be critical of them without saying there was this golden age. There was without doubt, no golden age. In terms of the, this institution, it kind of exemplifies what I mean. So on the one hand, you've got having cultural representation and inquiry is essential to being an equal citizen in society. But in a way, it's all loaded onto culture. So that speaks to sort of the point you were making in a way. What about, what about stuff? What about material, you know, instead of treating Native Americans as if their problems can be magic to weigh by a museum? What about doing other things? I think there's an element of that. But there is something else that's gone on. And in a way, I think it's more because it's driven for the benefit of the museum than it is for the Native Americans. You know, they're the ones who are making the decisions about what goes in and what this museum is for. They do it in the name of, in the voice of Native Americans. I said that, I mean, they're run, they have to have a certain number of Native Americans, but who speaks the Native Americans? Who's, you know, the government in a way that's going to state appointed? But what you've got is one vision that's allowed. And so you, it's certain museums can only be run by people with certain identities and really can only have a certain message about the past. And that's because almost because it's so tied to its political purpose, which is to make people feel like they're part of America, that they're good, they're nice people. And so that kind of the narrative is driven by that political purpose. And so in a way, I think you're getting this very idealized view of history. And so in, so you can say in the past, you had these hidden histories, where, which might have been the nature, you know, the history of Native Americans in America was written by Americans. And it was hidden. It was sort of secreted away. And now you have a new hidden history, because only certain people, you are in a way, only certain histories are allowed to be told. It dressed it up in nice language. But it's still, it's still very partial. Does that make sense? ([Time 0:57:28](https://share.snipd.com/snip/1c01b3c0-06d8-4e9b-b18f-0940b8c7a91b))