title:: To Engineer Is Human: The Role of Failure in Successful Design (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "To Engineer Is Human: The Role of Failure in Successful Design"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/to-engineer-is-human/
document_note:: The principal objective of engineering is to create a world ever-changing from the given world of the scientist. Failures in engineering can contribute more to advancing technology than successes, as they can lead to greater margins of safety and new periods of success. The factor of safety is used to provide a margin of error to allow for a considerable number of failures to compound without threatening the success of an engineering endeavor. Quality control is used to minimize deviations from an acceptable norm and to reject inferior workmanship. Computer aided design is helpful for making many decisions, but it lacks the understanding of how a structure might fail. Ultimately, failures in engineering can lead to greater vigilance and understanding, and good judgment is usually the result of experience.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 19th, 2023]]
	- The colossal disasters that do occur are ultimately failures of design but the lessons learned from those disasters can do more to advance engineering knowledge than all the successful machines and structures in the world. Indeed, failures appear to be inevitable in the wake of prolonged success, which encourages lower margins of safety. Failures in turn lead to greater margins of safety and, hence, new periods of success. To understand what engineering is and what engineers do is to understand how failures can happen and how they can contribute more than successes to advance technology ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskf1sevpja4wnjpg698v2rt))
		- **Note**: This text discusses how engineering disasters can be seen as learning opportunities that can lead to greater success, and that understanding the role of failure can help to better understand engineering. It argues that failures can lead to wider margins of safety, which can lead to increased success, and that failures can ultimately contribute more to advancing technology than successes.
	- A scientific hypothesis is tested by comparing its conclusions with the reality of the world as it is ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskf29vj617kkrwsgdkrsqt9))
		- **Tags**: #[[experimentation]]
		- **Note**: This passage discusses the scientific method of testing a hypothesis by comparing its conclusions with the actual reality of the world. This is done to determine whether the hypothesis is valid or not.
	- Success is foreseeing failure. Nobody wants to learn by mistakes but we cannot learn enough from successes to go beyond the state of the art. The object of engineering design is to anticipate failure and to design against it. This is done by understanding how much load a structure can carry without letting go or breaking ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskf30wp36z9r0yqz2z6cd36))
		- **Note**: This text argues that the key to successful engineering design is anticipating and planning for failure. It suggests that engineers should understand the maximum load a structure can carry without breaking in order to design against possible failure.
	- One of the most comforting means, employed in virtually all engineering designs, hs been the factor of safety. Also known as the factor of ignorance, it is used to provide a margin of error that allows for a considerable number of corollaries to Murphy’s Law to compound without threatening the success of an engineering endeavor. factors of safety are intended to allow for the bridge built of the weakest imaginable batch of steel to stand up under the hackers imaginable truck going over the largest imaginable pothole and bouncing across the roadway in a storm. The factor of safety is calculated by dividing the load require to cause failure by the maximum load expected to act on a structure. The essential idea behind a factor of safety is that a means of failure must be made explicit, and tr load to cause that failure must be calculable or determinable by experiment. This clearly indicates that it ks a failure that the engineer is trying to avoid in his design, and that is why failures of real structures are so interesting to engineers. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskf3q9mtkvx04s9x6c7qyht))
		- **Note**: The factor of safety is a common engineering design used to provide a margin of error to account for unexpected issues. It is calculated by dividing the load required to cause failure by the maximum load expected to act on a structure. This suggests that engineers are actively looking for means of failure in order to avoid them in their designs, which is why failures of real structures are so interesting to them.
	- Quality control is supposed to eliminate unacceptably large flaws by minimizing deviations from an acceptable norm and by rejecting inferior workmanship. But, unfortunately, the techniques for the detection of predicting cracks in fabricated structures are wanting. Not only are instruments relatively insensitive, but also their use and interpretation are often more art than science ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskf4vkx97er8dfs6xg47cq1))
		- **Note**: This passage discusses the difficulty of detecting and predicting flaws in manufactured structures. Quality control is intended to reduce the number of unacceptable flaws, but the instruments used to detect such flaws are often not very accurate, and their use and interpretation require more of an art than a science.
	- Good judgment is usually the result of experience. And experience is frequently the result of bad judgment. But to learn from the experience of others requires those who have the experience to share the knowledge with those who follow ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskf5y2k8zh8q3h0t7en4xsh))
		- **Note**: Good judgment comes from 🤔
		  experience, bad or good. 🤷‍♀️ 
		  Share wisdom with others. 🤝