title:: Trillion Dollar Coach: The Leadership Playbook of Silicon Valley’s Bill Campbell (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Trillion Dollar Coach: The Leadership Playbook of Silicon Valley’s Bill Campbell"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/trillion-dollar-coach/
document_note:: Bill Campbell was an incredibly successful businessman and coach who dedicated his life to helping others reach their full potential. He advocated for more generosity and humility, and he was always looking to build relationships and create a sense of community. He believed that the primary job of every manager was to help people be more effective in their job and to grow and develop, and he showed everyone, regardless of who they were, dignity and respect. His main role was to expose any problems and have people talk about them openly and honestly. He was an "evangelist for courage," encouraging people to push past the fear and go for big, bold outcomes.
tags:: #[[leadership]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 21st, 2023]]
	- **Was all about the people and wrote his "It's the People" Manifesto to capture this idea**
	  
	  1.  "People are the foundation of any company’s success. The primary job of each manager is to help people be more effective in their job and to grow and develop. We have great people who want to do well, are capable of doing great things, and come to work fired up to do them. Great people flourish in an environment that liberates and amplifies that energy. Managers create this environment through support, respect, and trust. Support means giving people the tools, information, training, and coaching they need to succeed. It means continuous effort to develop people’s skills. Great managers help people excel and grow. Respect means understanding people’s unique career goals and being sensitive to their life choices. It means helping people achieve these career goals in a way that’s consistent with the needs of the company. Trust means freeing people to do their jobs and to make decisions. It means knowing people want to do well and believing that they will."
	  2.  A manager's job is to help their people become as effective as possible, to ensure their well-being and success
	  3.  **Develop a relationship with everyone** - don’t be dictatorial, establish credibility, show you really care and love them
	  4.  **Your title makes you a manager, your people make you a leader**
	  5.  **People will crown you as a good leader, a good manager - this never comes from yourself**.
	  6.  **A manager‘s role is firstly to help his people grow and fulfill their potential but also to help facilitate decisions and remove roadblocks from their people‘s paths.** However he hated consensus as he believed this led to group-think. He wanted to air out all the ideas and give everyone a chance to voice their opinion‘s but ultimately the decision is the leader’s. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnqmphw43xtntssf0k68b60))
		- **Note**: Bill Campbell believed that managers should prioritize their people and help them become more effective and successful. His "It's the People" Manifesto encourages managers to provide support, respect, and trust, as well as develop relationships with their employees so that they can be better equipped to fulfill their potential. He also taught that a manager's title does not make them a leader, but rather the people do, and that a manager should facilitate decisions and remove obstacles from their people's paths.
	- Teams > Individuals, Teams > Problems
	  
	  1.  **Bill coached teams and not individuals.** When he met with Larry and Sergei of Google, he met with their whole staff not just the founders. He coached them on how to be better managers and leaders of their teams and also how to be better people overall
	  2.  **Always focus on the team rather than the problem**
	  3.  Begin every meeting with some social talk - asking about trips, weekends, plans, anything outside of work that people are passionate about. **Deep relationships and clear communication are absolutely vital.** Use meetings to get everyone together, build relationships, see each other's strengths, get everyone on the same page, and make decisions
	  4.  Bill started meetings by writing five words on the whiteboard that he wanted to cover. He would sometimes ask the person he was coaching to write his top 5 - 9 words. This would help prioritize and show what each thought were the most important topics
	  5.  The leader should speak last and let everyone voice their opinion‘s. **Getting the right answer is important but how you get there is just as important**. Sometimes you have to make a hard and unpopular decision but it is the right thing to do - at this point the team has to "disagree and commit"
	  6.  **Winning is important but winning right, winning as a team, is more important**
	  7.  **Leaders communicate effectively and clearly. When they see fissures developing, they stop them in their tracks. They fill in the gaps and make sure everyone is on the same page** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gsnqnyee88wyanpc4c0zw7cf))
		- **Note**: Bill Campbell was a coach who focused on team dynamics rather than individual success. He emphasized the importance of deep relationships and clear communication, often beginning meetings with social talk to build relationships and help make decisions. He would also write five words on the whiteboard to focus the conversation and encourage everyone to voice their opinions. Winning was important, but winning as a team was even more important. Leaders should communicate effectively and clearly to ensure everyone is on the same page and to prevent fissures from forming.