title:: Tuning Your Cognitive Strategies (highlights)
author:: [[Raemon]]
full-title:: "Tuning Your Cognitive Strategies"
category:: #articles
url:: https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/bbB4pvAQdpGrgGvXH/tuning-your-cognitive-strategies
document_note:: The blogpost author (SquirrelInHell on LessWrong) died awhile ago. The author’s favorite rationality technique is to make good use of your cognition by making a small tweak to how your brain processes information in general. Your cognition is much more powerful than just the part you have conscious access to, and it’s crucial to make good use of it. For example, if your current top priority is “start my own company”, but you keep having insights about “what I’ll say to my current boss when I finally quit”… that’s maybe not the best way to make progress.

The author defines deltas as the differences between each thought and the next, as they occur to you. The author suggests that learning as much as possible about these differences is crucial to improving your cognitive strategies.

The author suggests that it’s best to use something that you think you can solve in at most a few minutes, and which makes it easy to see how well you are doing. For practice, the author suggests starting with improving some simple local efficiency heuristics. They definitely aren’t the final goal, but will later be useful regardless of what goal you have.
tags:: #[[cognition]] #[[favorite]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[May 1st, 2023]]
	- •   Consider this metaphor:
	    •   Imagine your mind as a giant bubbling cauldron full of "thoughts", including "feelings", "ideas", "words", "concepts", "memories", etc.
	        •   Some of those "thoughts" rise to the top of the cauldron, and get picked up by your conscious attention.
	        •   If the conscious "you" is like a cook standing over the cauldron, then the cook has only a very small spoon at their disposal. They can only taste whatever has bubbled to the surface.
	        •   Your creativity and thinking power come from the full depth of the cauldron.
	        •   The rules of how thoughts interact and form new thoughts are the same, regardless of whether those thoughts are conscious or not.
	    •   When you don't like whatever has risen up to the top of the cauldron, the last thing you want is to try to "fix it".
	        •   You only have access to the topmost layer, so it would be hopelessly ineffective anyway.
	        •   But it's much worse than that - by attempting to "fix" your cognition, you stop being able to see how it works.
	        •   How well your cognition works is shown not by what thoughts you have at the moment, but rather by the pattern of how one or more thoughts combine into a new thought ("cognitive strategy").
	    •   Instead, you want to learn as much as possible about the differences ("deltas") between each thought and the next, as they occur to you.
	  •   Your brain already has the ability to update its cognitive strategies (this is called "meta-cognitive reinforcement learning"). However, the usual mechanism works with unnecessary levels of indirection, as in:
	    •   Cognitive strategy -> Thought -> Action -> Reward or punishment
	        •   You get rewarded or punished for what you do (as measured by your brain's chemical responses). Good thoughts are more likely to be followed by good actions. Good cognitive strategies are more likely to generate good thoughts. On average, your brain will slowly update its cognitive strategies in the right direction.
	    •   Cognitive strategy -> Thought -> Reward or punishment
	        •   You have learned to be happy or unhappy about having certain ideas, even when you don't yet know how they apply to the real world. Now your brain gets rewarded or punished for thoughts, and on average good thoughts are more likely to be generated by good cognitive strategies. Your brain can update cognitive strategies faster, according to heuristics about what makes ideas "good".
	  •   However, by carefully looking at the "deltas" between conscious thoughts, we can get rid of the last remaining level of indirection (this is the key insight of this whole page!):
	    •   Cognitive strategy -> Reward or punishment
	        •   You have learned to perceive your cognitive strategies as they happen, and developed some heuristics that tell you whether they are good or bad. Now your brain can update cognitive strategies immediately, and do it regardless of the topic of your thoughts.
	        •   Even when you generate a useless idea from another useless idea, you can still track whether the cognitive strategy behind it was sound, and learn from the experience. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gz3ac6zvxcgbxwvn9ptd6033))
		- **Note**: Imagine your mind is like a big pot with lots of bubbling thoughts inside. Some of these thoughts float up to the top, and those are the ones your conscious brain notices. But the real power comes from all the thoughts at the bottom of the pot, even the ones we can't see. We can learn a lot from the changes between thoughts, called "deltas", and this can help us understand how our brain works and how to think better. By looking at the deltas, we can directly reward or punish our cognitive strategies without having to wait. This will help our brains learn faster and better.
	- "where do my thoughts go when this puzzle enters my attention"? ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gz3aef8bzdx5j1ww939yzep5))
		- **Tags**: #[[prompt]]
	- If you bend to external pressure, you'll just reinforce the pathological pattern that thinking tools are your enemies, because they limit your freedom. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gz3aktz3xk58yrnmdx5eczj3))
	- Your cognition is much more powerful than just the part you have conscious access to, and it's crucial to make good use of it. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gz2fz2m2by67gkcc8jeykvb7))
	- Goal-oriented thinking.
	  
	  •   When working on real-life problems, your peak performance matters less than the ability to simply *think useful thoughts at all*.
	    •   For example, if your current top priority is "start my own company", but you keep having insights about "what I'll say to my current boss when I finally quit"... that's maybe not the best way to make progress. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gz2g04z2hnz1chh7jgdjgx49))
		- **Note**: Think useful thoughts for goal progress.