title:: Using Play to Rewire & Improve Your Brain (highlights)
author:: [[Huberman Lab]]
full-title:: "Using Play to Rewire & Improve Your Brain"
category:: #podcasts

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Play is Contingency Testing in a Low Stakes Environment
	  
	  Summary:
	  Play is contingency testing under conditions where the stakes are sufficiently low that individuals should feel comfortable assuming different roles. Play allows children, and adults for that matter, to explore different outcomes in a kind of low stakes environment. If you win, you might feel really good about it, but you're not really incredible. You are just incredible in that particular situation for that particular moment. It doesn't really transform the rest of your life unless that game is of a particular type, for sport, for instance. We'll talk about sport later.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Long without some sort of eruption of crying and some sort of battle, you kno kind of push pull over an object, to things like sharing and things like co operative play. So as we trn tion from forms of play that are all about the self, that are all mimi, mi mimi, the toddlers creed to forms of play that involve some discomfort in assuming roles that maybe we don't want and not getting what we want. It's really an opportunity for the brain to start to explore different roles that people take, how they work as individuals and as pairs and in larger groups, and to do that in a low stakes environment, right? You wouldn't want this to be worked out on the battle field or when searching for food, or in some high stakes environment where the survival of the species was important. It appears these circuitries for play evolved so that rules and contingencies around who's most important, whether or not the group is important, whether or not individuals are going to be leaders or followers, et cetera, that can be explored in a low stakes environment. Now, there are hundreds of different types of play and hundreds of different types of contingency testing, but the key theme here is that play allows children, and adults for that matter, to explore different outcomes in a kind of low stakes environment. If you're playing a board game or a card game, you might get really into that game. But unless there's a lot of money on the table, so to speak, or you're really playing for something important, or unless you're go is swollen way out of proportion to reality. If you lose, you might not feel good about it, but it's truly not the end of the world. And if you win, you might feel really good about it, but you're not really incredible. You are just incredible in that particular situation for that particular moment. It doesn't really transform the rest of your life, unless that game is of particular type, for sport, for instance. We'll talk about sport later. So the key theme here is that play is contingency testing. Play is contingency testing under conditions where the stakes are sufficiently low that individuals should feel comfortable assuming different roles, even in roles that they're not entirely comfortable with in their outside life. And that all relates, again, ([Time 0:29:49](https://share.snipd.com/snip/ef4012a3-5330-472e-88a0-eea5094fb3b4))