title:: What Is Phenomenology? The Philosophy of Husserl and Heidegger (highlights)
author:: [[The Living Philosophy]]
full-title:: "What Is Phenomenology? The Philosophy of Husserl and Heidegger"
category:: #articles
url:: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IvA9FxsM9G8
document_note:: Phenomenology is a school of philosophy that originated in the late 19th century and early 20th century as a new development in philosophy. It is dedicated to understanding consciousness in its raw form and is an experientialist rather than a rationalist philosophy. The word Phenomenology comes from the Greek phainomenon meaning "that which appears". Edmund Husserl is credited with creating a philosophical school of Phenomenology, which was taken up by a circle of followers. Husserl's formulation of Phenomenology was based on the concept of intentionality, which is the interplay between the content of consciousness and the structures of consciousness. After the Second World War, Phenomenology's relationship to Eastern philosophy has been explored. It is a complete reversal of the course of Western philosophy since Plato, which has been riding the rationalist wave with what's called the representational theory of consciousness. Phenomenology looks to make a science out of consciousness by using systematic reflection to determine the essence of consciousness. Vipassana meditation is a fundamentally phenomenological practice.
tags:: #[[philosophy]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Apr 1st, 2023]]
	- Phenomenology is a school of philosophy that originated in the late 19th century and early20th century with the writing of the German philosopher Edmund Husserl. It was a radicalnew development in philosophy. What phenomenology explores is an alternative approach to thetruth from that which philosophy has been applying for the past two and half thousandyears. It is as if Husserl went all the way back to Plato and took a different turnoffalong the path to truth. This turnoff has resulted in phenomenology have much more incommon with the Eastern schools of philosophy than any other school of the Western tradition. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gwwycstmttspmgwewbvqxtx6))
		- **Note**: Phenomenology is a type of philosophy that started with the ideas of a German philosopher called Edmund Husserl. It was a completely new way of thinking about truth and it was different from anything philosophers had been doing for the last two and a half thousand years. Husserl took a different path from the one Plato took and that path led to the discovery of phenomenology, which has a lot of similarities to Eastern philosophies.