title:: What Is Intelligence? || the Human Potential Lab (highlights)
author:: [[The Psychology Podcast]]
full-title:: "What Is Intelligence? || the Human Potential Lab"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/7dd0f6f8-c158-4ce7-88b6-e858345289b9

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 4th, 2023]]
	- The Original Model of Emotional Intelligence Was Not Created by Daniel Goldman
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Daniel Goldman's book, "Emotional Intelligence: Why It Matters and How to Get It" is a popular book because it includes many skills that are considered to be positive in the world, such as empathy, social skills, and effective communication., * The original model of emotional intelligence, created by John Mayer and Peter Salovey, is more comprehensive and includes four branches of emotional intelligence: the ability to perceive accurately appraise emotions, access and or generate feelings, understand emotions and emotions of others, and regulate emotions to promote emotional and intellectual growth.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  And the thing with the way that Daniel Goldman presented emotional intelligence is that he included so many things within that idea of emotional intelligence, so many skills. Basically all the skills that are positive in the world, he included as emotional intelligence, your ability to have empathy, your ability to have social skills, to not be socially awkward, your ability to get things done, to be effective. That's emotional intelligence. It was only really when I got to Yale for my PhD work in intelligence research where I discovered that the original model of emotional intelligence was not created by Daniel Goldman. It was created by John Mayer and Peter Salovey. And in their original model of emotional intelligence, they argued that there are four branches of emotional intelligence. One branch is the ability to perceive accurately appraise emotions and express your emotions accurately. The second branch is the ability to access and or generate feelings when they facilitate thought. The third branch is the ability to understand your emotions and as well as emotions of others and have emotional knowledge. Know that when someone's feeling angry, you understand that that's anger. And then the fourth branch is the ability to regulate emotions to promote emotional and intellectual growth. This one's really important. They're all important, but you could see why the person who's emotionally intelligent is able to when they're angry, sad, to not immediately spiral downward, but to regulate their emotions in ways that promotes their own personal growth. So this is what's interesting about the emotional intelligence thing is that Daniel Goldman wrote this popular book because he went to a conference. This is the story as it was told to me is he went to a conference where John Mayer and Peter Salovey were presenting their model of emotional intelligence and he saw a book there. He's like, wow, this would make a great best-selling book. ([Time 0:33:11](https://share.snipd.com/snip/1b946530-2317-435e-beb2-6cfa16c708f7))