title:: Where Good Ideas Come From (highlights)
author:: [[Steven Johnson]]
full-title:: "Where Good Ideas Come From"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/where-good-ideas-come-from/
document_note:: The book "Where Good Ideas Come From" by Steven Johnson explores the concept of innovation and how it is connected to creativity. Johnson discusses the quarter power law which states that the bigger the city, the more innovative it becomes, and the patterns of innovation are fractal and reliable. He also explains that the most innovative environments are those that are open-ended and allow ample connections to spark. Johnson argues that innovation is a process of tinkering with existing building blocks in a productive and unfamiliar way and introduces the concept of the adjacent possible which suggests that many ideas tend to appear around the same time due to the building blocks being present. Johnson emphasizes the importance of exposing oneself to as many ideas as possible and avoiding silos in order to come up with great ideas. He also notes that while eureka moments are rare, slow hunches are the rule and should be kept track of in order to make meaningful connections. Overall, the book encourages readers to explore their creative potential and make connections between ideas.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- The adjacent possible – many ideas tend to pop up at around the same time and the findings indicate that this is because the building blocks to make them possible have appeared to allow for those connections and ideas to now become possible. The most innovative environments expose their constituents to the adjacent possible and help them make connections between these building blocks in novel and interesting ways ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1bt4jetfhx5ybvp333fexr))
	- The trick to having great ideas is not to sit around in isolation and trying to think them up, but rather exposing yourself to as many ideas as possible and putting them together in unique ways ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1bsqgn2408t1enkdpz8xcz))
	- Slow hunches rather than eureka moments are the rule, not the exception. They can be quite fleeting since they’re not immediate and one way to keep track of them is to write everything down. Don’t impose too much structure as it is the interconnections that really matter ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1btar8x0ha56jgsetfd2z2))