title:: Why Don’t We Learn From History? (highlights)
author:: [[Blas]]
full-title:: "Why Don’t We Learn From History?"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/why-dont-we-learn-from-history/
document_note:: History teaches us many lessons and provides valuable experience from which we can learn. We should view it as an opportunity to gain knowledge and wisdom, and to practice personal philosophy. Its practical value lies in helping us recognize and learn from the mistakes of the past. It can also give us perspective and hope in difficult times. We should be open-minded and strive for truth, and be aware of the dangers of power and expediency. Ultimately, a deep understanding of history can help us to make better decisions and create a more peaceful future.
tags:: #[[history]]

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 19th, 2023]]
	- Over two thousand years ago, Polybius, the soundest of ancient historians, began his History with the remark that “the most instructive, indeed the only method of learning to bear with dignity the vicissitude of fortune, is to recall the catastrophes of others.” History is the best help, being a record of how things usually go wrong. A long historical view not only helps us to keep calm in a “time of trouble” but reminds us that there is an end to the longest tunnel. Even if we can see no good hope ahead, an historical interest as to what will happen is a help in carrying on. For a thinking man, it can be the strongest check on a suicidal feeling. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskct2sa3nj7de59z1f7y7dd))
		- **Note**: Polybius, an ancient historian, said that the best way to be prepared for tough times is to learn from the mistakes of others. History is like a record of things that usually go wrong and when we look back, we can see how it all worked out. Even if it looks like there is no hope, being interested in history can help us stay positive and get through the tough times. It can help us avoid feeling so down that we want to give up.
	- What is the object of history? I would answer, quite simply – “truth." The object might be more cautiously expressed thus: to find out what happened while trying to find out why it happened. In other words, to seek the causal relations between events. History has limitations as guiding signpost, however, for although it can show us the right direction, it does not give detailed information about the road conditions
	  
	  1.  NOTE: map is not the terrain ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskctyna5fvtzt15ar7nd2jd))
		- **Note**: The object of history is to discover what happened and why it happened. Even though history can tell us which direction to go, it won't tell us all the details about the path we should take. Just like a map is not the same as the actual terrain, history can only show us what to avoid, not necessarily what to do.
	- In reality, reason has had a greater influence than fortune on the issue of wars that have most influenced history. Creative thought has often counted for more than courage; for more, even, than gifted leadership. It is a romantic habit to ascribe to a flash of inspiration in battle what more truly has been due to seeds long sown—to the previous development of some new military practice by the victors, or to avoidable decay in the military practice of the losers. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskcwh835m9rztkvvwcq739d))
		- **Note**: In reality, it is more important to use your brain than to be lucky when it comes to wars that have changed history. People often use their intelligence to win battles instead of relying on bravery or a great leader. People tend to think that a sudden clever idea was the reason for a victory, but the real reason was usually because of something that was prepared for a long time - either the winners had come up with a new way to fight or the losers had become bad at fighting.
	- Direct experience is inherently too limited to form an adequate foundation either for theory or for application. At the best it produces an atmosphere that is of value in drying and hardening the structure of thought. The greater value of indirect experience lies in its greater variety and extent. “History is universal experience”—the experience not of another but of many others under manifold conditions. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskcxq5hbcm25e66dagz5qcg))
		- **Note**: Direct experience means doing something yourself. But that experience is not enough to understand things or come up with ideas. To learn the most, it's better to learn from many people who have done many different things. History is a way to learn from all of their experiences, which is much bigger and more varied than any one person's experience.
	- “Hard writing makes easy reading.” Such hard writing makes for hard thinking. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskcyw5a6dzz65p01chyyvt4))
	- Doubt is unnerving save to philosophic minds, and armies are not composed of philosophers, either at the top or at the bottom. In no activity is optimism so necessary to success, for it deals so largely with the unknown—even unto death. The margin that separates optimism from blind folly is narrow. Thus there is no cause for surprise that soldiers have so often overstepped it and become the victims of their faith. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskczk7xset9vewh5er9m9rc))
		- **Note**: The idea of doubting can make people feel uncomfortable, unless they are really smart and understand a lot of things. Most soldiers are not that smart, either the people in charge or the people who follow orders. Being optimistic is very important for soldiers, because they often have to do things that are very dangerous and that could end in death. The difference between being hopeful and being foolish is not very big, so it is not surprising that soldiers sometimes make bad decisions because they are too hopeful.
	- We learn from history that self-made despotic rulers follow a standard pattern. In gaining power: They exploit, consciously or unconsciously, a state of popular dissatisfaction with the existing regime or of hostility between different sections of the people. On gaining power: They soon begin to rid themselves of their chief helpers, “discovering” that those who brought about the new order have suddenly become traitors to it. This political confidence trick, itself a familiar string of tricks, has been repeated all down the ages. Yet it rarely fails to take in a fresh generation. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskd30gx89mn9e9mxn0ap45k))
		- **Note**: This passage explains how some rulers have stayed in power for a long time. They use tricks to get people to be unhappy with the current leadership and fight against each other. After they get into power, they get rid of the people who helped them get there. This same trick has been used over and over again, but it still works on new people all the time.
	- But “anti-Fascism” or “anti-Communism” is not enough. Nor is even the defense of freedom. What has been gained may not be maintained, against invasion without and erosion within, if we are content to stand still. The peoples who are partially free as a result of what their forebears achieved in the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries must continue to spread the gospel of freedom and work for the extension of the conditions, social and economic as well as political, which are essential to make men free. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskd4bmb38khj9bc1bp05s8z))
		- **Note**: This passage is saying that fighting against Fascism or Communism is not enough. We also need to make sure that the freedom we have already gained is not lost. To do this, we have to keep teaching people about freedom and work to create better conditions for everyone, like having a good job and living in a safe place. This is what our ancestors did in the 1700s, 1800s, and 1900s.
	- We learn from history that expediency has rarely proved expedient.
	  
	  1.  NOTE: John Wooden – be quick but don’t hurry ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskd61xw0kcz63jpnds2gbs2))
		- **Note**: Expediency yields not 🤔
		  haste makes waste, remember well 🤔
		  Be quick but don't hurry 🐢
	- We learn from history that complete victory has never been completed by the result that the victors always anticipate—a good and lasting peace. For victory has always sown the seeds of a fresh war, because victory breeds among the vanquished a desire for vindication and vengeance and because victory raises fresh rivals.
	  
	  1.  NOTE: dialectical materialism ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskd7n6sagevbbvd9p4w4ymc))
		- **Note**: History tells us that when one side wins a war, it does not always lead to a peaceful, good result like the victors had hoped. This is because victory can create feelings of anger, resentment, and a need for revenge in the people that lost the war. It can also create new enemies who want to challenge the winners.
	- Vitality springs from diversity—which makes for real progress so long as there is mutual toleration, based on the recognition that worse may come from an attempt to suppress differences than from acceptance of them. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskd9dkry9v8tcp1expfkjwa))
	- Truth is a spiral staircase. What looks true on one level may not be true on the next higher level. A complete vision must extend vertically as well as horizontally—not only seeing the parts in relation to one another but embracing the different planes. Ascending the spiral, it can be seen that individual security increases with the growth of society, that local security increases when linked to a wider organization, that national security increases when nationalism decreases and would become much greater if each nation's claim to sovereignty were merged in a super-national body. ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gskda2gq8g3kfz5ey6gpnwxe))
		- **Note**: Truth is like a spiral staircase. When you climb each step, you can see that different things are true. To have a complete view, you need to look up and down. When people come together in groups, like a family or a community, they are more secure. When communities come together in a larger organization, like a nation, they are even safer. Nations can be even safer if they work together, instead of each one having its own rules. Working together makes people more secure.