title:: Why Greatness Cannot Be Planned (highlights)
author:: [[Kenneth Stanley]]
full-title:: "Why Greatness Cannot Be Planned"
category:: #articles
url:: https://blas.com/why-greatness-cannot-be-planned/
document_note:: The main idea of the text is that greatness cannot be planned and should not be pursued with an objective. Instead, greatness is more likely to be achieved by surrendering to the unknown and embracing curiosity and exploration. It is suggested that we should focus on novelty and interestingness, rather than on competition or consensus, in order to uncover truly revolutionary ideas.

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 25th, 2023]]
	- **Ambitious goals are deceptive, so the next stepping stone to get to the final end state are unclear. The greatest achievements are less likely when they have objectives, so the optimal path for these great achievements is to have no objective at all as relevant stepping stones aren’t obvious and would be missed if too focused on the objective – the stepping stone doesn’t resemble the final product.** In other words, no matter how tempting it is to believe in it, the distant objective cannot guide you to itself – it is the ultimate false compass ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1b65t58gps4cjv76tztfdn))
		- **Note**: Ambitious goals can be difficult to achieve because it can be hard to figure out what the next step should be. Having an objective or plan can make it harder to get to the end result because the "stepping stones" that lead to the final result may not be obvious. It's like trying to find a destination without a map. No matter how much we want to reach our goal, relying on an objective alone won't get us there--it's like a false promise.
	- **Nothing can reliably reach target objectives. We can find something amazing, we just can’t say what those somethings are. Great discoveries are possible if they’re left undefined…The strange paradox, where trying is a curse and not a blessing, sets the stage for a more realistic understanding of what is achievable and how. It means that ambitious goals can’t be reliably achieved by trying – unless they are one stepping stone away, where they come within reach. Otherwise, the only choice that remains is *not* trying.** And while this treasure-hunting approach will not ensure reaching any particular objective, what it *will* do is accumulate stepping stones that lead to unfamiliar places. The treasure hunter is an opportunistic explorer – searching for anything and everything of value, without a care for what might be found. To be a treasure hunter, you have to collect as many stepping stones as you can, because you never know which one might lead somewhere valuable ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1b6hrq0czfjynksknm8w21))
		- **Note**: This passage explains that it is impossible to know what great discoveries we can make in the future. We can't know what will happen if we try to reach an ambitious goal, so it is better to explore and collect as many stepping stones as we can. A stepping stone is like a clue that can lead you to something valuable that you didn't know about before. A treasure hunter is someone who looks for these stepping stones and doesn't care about what they might find. By not having a plan and looking for clues, we might find something great.
	- When there is no destination, there can’t be a right path. Instead of judging every activity for its potential to succeed, we should judge our projects for their potential to spawn more projects…So, if you’re wondering how to escape the myth of the objective, just do things because they’re interesting ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1b6ys36aqkkbcn2c6cqvph))
		- **Note**: No destination: 🏁
		  Do things that spark curiosity 🤔
		  Escape the objective 📰
	- To achieve our highest goals, we must be willing to abandon them ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1b7g0dvyf8y2z8c58hfqs8))
	- **Perhaps then it would make sense sometimes to reward maximal disagreement instead of agreement. It’s possible that anti-consensus may be more interesting than bland agreement.** After all, attracting a unanimous vote in science could be a sign of nothing more than echoing the status quo. If you’re doing whatever is hot and parrot the right buzzwords, you might be able to attract wide support. On the other hand, an *interesting* idea is likely to split votes. At the border between our present knowledge and the unknown are questions whose answers remain uncertain. That’s why the opinions of experts should diverge in such uncharted territory. It’s in the wild borderland between the known and the unknown that we should want our greatest minds probing, rather than within the comfortable vacation-spot of maximal consensus. Just think, which project is likely more revolutionary, one that receives, excellent, excellent, poor, poor, or the one that receives excellent, excellent, excellent, excellent? **Splitting experts may be more of an achievement than unifying them** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1b7ne77y3sxa72s4bdsf5s))
		- **Note**: Sometimes it might make sense to reward people for not agreeing with each other instead of everyone agreeing. It's possible that when everyone disagrees, it can be more interesting than when everyone agrees. Unanimous votes in science can just mean that everyone is repeating the same thing. But when people have different opinions, it can mean that they have an interesting idea. It might be more impressive if people don't agree than if they do agree. That's why experts should have different opinions in new or unknown areas. We should want people to explore in the unknown places, not just in places where everyone agrees. It is more likely that a revolutionary idea will come from different opinions than from the same opinion.
	- Natural evolution can be seen as novelty-generating search with local competition…**A key insight from thinking non-objectively in this chapter is that although evolution can be seen as a competition, out-competing other creatures on the “objective” of surviving and reproducing is less important than *escaping* from competition to form new niches.** ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gt1b91yhqc2vk64jycdtd8bk))