title:: WTT - You Won't Detect the Next Fraud (highlights)
author:: [[Capital Allocators – Inside the Institutional Investment Industry]]
full-title:: "WTT - You Won't Detect the Next Fraud"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/a8fa333a-3538-4e19-b3da-022903e729b4

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Jan 19th, 2023]]
	- How to Prevent Fraud
	  
	  Key takeaways:
	  (* Fraud is fraud, and it's something that will happen to anyone., * Frauds can start out as legitimate businesses, but if you're in doubt, you should stay out., * It's important to have a diversified portfolio, and to be aware of the risks associated with any investment.)
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  Shortly after, if Di left his family behind and fled the US for India. If you had asked the 80 people in our section to force rank each other by integrity before this occurred, my hunches if Di would have landed in the top 10%. Turns out he was dead last. Both Sam and if Di were legitimately successful until they pivoted to something nefarious. Both men had stellar academic pedigrees and strong early career trajectories that were not based solely on bad behavior. At some tipping point, whatever pathology sat deep inside them surfaced and reared its ugly head. As an aside, it's not just me. After this blog came out on email this week, friends brought me on a trip down memory lane sharing their experiences with frauds that included first capital, Lipper, Amrath, Bayou, Vision Capital, and even David Sokol from Berkshire Hathaway. The hits just keep coming. Kavyat M. Tour If you're around the business long enough, you will inevitably observe Michael's principle. When people you think you know do something you never imagined possible, you trace your steps and wonder what you really knew in the first place. That questioning will eventually turn to what you know about yourself. Humans are complex beings with blind spots. We can spend a lifetime uncovering our own without knowing all the answers. Is it feasible to think we can uncover the rationale for someone else's behavior? Frauds remind us that we can never understand professional relationships with 100% certainty. Frauds will happen again and we won't learn much from them. It would be convenient to think that fraud is something that will happen to someone else and can be avoided with sound due diligence. But it could just as easily happen to you and your organization. Our for a few suggestions for how to mitigate the damage. 1. Recognize that fraud is fraud. 2. What ends up as fraud may start as a legitimate business. 3. When in doubt, stay out. And 4. Diversify prudently anyway. Of course, you can choose to turn up your dial on fraud detection from 1% to 5% as tends to happen shortly after the revelation of a big one. That would be a mistake. It will cost you time better spent assessing the relative merits of legitimate investment opportunities and the 5% probably won't make a difference anyway. Michael Price was right. Focus on what you can control and stop throwing stones at those caught on the wrong side of the left tail. I hope you've enjoyed this audio version of my blog. We'd love your feedback. Send your thoughts to team at capitalallicators.com. ([Time 0:07:31](https://share.snipd.com/snip/7168e7c1-f4b9-4982-a2bc-19049f1c0216))