title:: Your Book Review: The Dawn of Everything (highlights)
author:: [[astralcodexten.substack.com]]
full-title:: "Your Book Review: The Dawn of Everything"
category:: #articles
url:: https://astralcodexten.substack.com/p/your-book-review-the-dawn-of-everything

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- Our world as it existed just before the dawn of agriculture was anything but a world of roving hunter-gatherer bands. It was marked, in many places, by sedentary villages and towns, some by then already ancient, as well as monumental sanctuaries and stockpiled wealth. . .
	- Great minds discuss ideas. Average minds discuss events. Small minds discuss people.
- New highlights added [[Mar 6th, 2023]] at 6:45 PM
	- nter *The Dawn of Everything*, which tries to change the past by taking a third way orthogonal to the Rousseau/Hobbes spectrum. Published to widespread acclaim just six months ago, it was blurbed by the likes of Noam Chomsky and Nassim Taleb, and given glowing reviews in *The New York Times*, *The New Yorker*, and many others. A doorstopping tome of public-facing but dense scholarship, it harkens back to back to an older age—it even has overwrought Victorian section titles calligraphed in ALL CAPS.
	  
	  It’s a co-authored book by David Graeber and David Wengrow. The Davids. First, we have David Graeber, anthropologist, famed author of *Debt: the First 5,000 Years*, notable figure in the 2008 Occupy Wall Street movement, a playful but snarky writer, almost certainly the reason for the section titles being the way they are, and now deceased at the relatively young age of 59, just several weeks before *The Dawn of Everything* was published, victim of a totally inexplicable and blazingly fast case of necrotizing pancreatitis. The surviving David, David Wengrow, is lesser known but more erudite, more pragmatic, classically academic both in his pedantry but also in his impressive armament of archeological knowledge, and it’s Wengrow who’s been trying to fill the shoes of the more famous Graeber by making the post-publishing media whirlwind tour, sometimes to visible discomfort as he goes on long-winded lectures while the hosts try hastily to cut to the next segment.
	  
	  What is the version of prehistory the Davids offer in *The Dawn of Everything*? It is an anti-story. The Davids are offering up an alternative to (as well as a criticism of) thinkers like Steven Pinker or Jared Diamond or Yuval Noah Harari, all of whom give a standard model of human prehistory that goes *small* *hunter-gatherer tribes* → *invention of agriculture* → *civilization* (with its associated hierarchies and private property and wealth inequalities).
	  
	  The original hunter-gatherer tribes are often reasoned about via the analogy of contemporary hunter-gatherer tribes (or at least, those in recent history surveyed by anthropologists). Yet which tribe is an “appropriate” analogy changes depending whether the reasoner is a follower of Hobbes or Rousseau; a modern Hobbesian might prefer to use the war-like Yanomami as the analogy, whereas a follower of Rousseau might prefer the more peaceful and egalitarian Hadza, Pygmies, or !Kung.
	  
	  The thesis of *The Dawn of Everything* is that neither of these is correct. In fact, the Davids argue the standard model of prehistory isn’t supported at all by modern archeological and anthropological evidence; in its place they offer a complexified account, wherein prehistorical humans lived in a panoply of different political arrangements, from extreme egalitarianism to chattel slavery, and that, just like humans in recorded history, they consciously collectively chose to live in the arrangement they did (well, except for the slaves), with the result being that
	  
	  > the world of hunter-gatherers as it existed before the coming of agriculture was one of bold social experiments, resembling a carnival parade of political forms. . . Agriculture, in turn, did not mean the inception of private property, nor did it mark an irreversible step towards inequality. In fact, many of the first farming communities were relatively free of ranks or hierarchies. And far from setting class differences in stone, a surprising number of the world’s earliest cities were organized on robustly egalitarian lines. . . ([View Highlight](https://read.readwise.io/read/01gtbvvwqx4venwz408yqxj17w))
		- **Note**: The Dawn Of Everything is a captivating historical novel by author Robert L. Anderson. Set in the late 1800s, the novel follows the story of two brothers, Marcus and Aaron, and their search for a peaceful existence in the American West. Along the way, the brothers encounter a number of interesting characters, as well as their own battles with the elements, the law, and each other. The novel is written with a sense of realism and attention to detail that brings the story to life and makes it both entertaining and thought-provoking.