title:: Tyler and Daniel Gross Talk Talent (highlights)
author:: [[Conversations with Tyler]]
full-title:: "Tyler and Daniel Gross Talk Talent"
category:: #podcasts
url:: https://share.snipd.com/episode/5c22b913-5721-4df3-b89a-516ed78727da

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Nov 19th, 2022]]
	- How Ambitious Are You?
	  
	  Summary:
	  If they can articulate some ambition and simply know what you mean when you ask them, i find it's a very hard question for people to fake. If they don't actually have the ambition, their ability to articulate it with the requisite energy and detail and focus just isn't there. Another idea i think, that we discuss in the book that works pretty well is repeating questions,.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  One of the interview questions i've used quite successfully as of late, it's a very simple one. It comes from peter teal, i believe. And it's simply to ask the person, how ambitious are you? And a yes or no answer actually as fine. If they say no, because they think you mean something bland, in a little main stream. And they say, no, i'm not ambitious, but i want to do this. And they say it with great passion and carisma, that's excellent. If they're just stumped by the question, they have no idea what they actually want to do, that, to me, is a negative. They might do fine in some jobs where they don't have much responsibility, but they're not going to build something for you. But if they can articulate some ambition and simply know what you mean when you ask them, i find it's a very hard question for people to fake. That. If they don't actually have the ambition, their ability to articulate it with the requisite energy and detail and focus just isn't there. Because, of course, the great problem one faces in an interview is that people can fake their answers to questions, right? So if you ask them, are you conscientious? Well, you probably care about that, but they're going to say yes, right? Who would say now, does it mean they're conscientious? Of course not.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Another idea i think, that we discuss in the book that works pretty well is repeating questions, ([Time 0:13:34](https://share.snipd.com/snip/bcc0fd67-7f3f-472a-9cdc-70a052ad711f))
	- Are We Always Solving Real Problems?
	  
	  Summary:
	  I think it's very important, especially in academia, but in many spheres, does that person understand which are the correct hierarchies to be climbing. Are we always solving real problems? I look for energy and durability and that combination. And i think also getting them talking about drama, you get a sense of how they organize hierarchies or achievement in their minds. So those would be my top things, along with smarts, energy, durability.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  Are we always solving real problems? I look for energy and durability and that combination. And then here's another thing i look for. I think it's very important, especially in academia, but in many spheres, does that person understand which are the correct hierarchies to be climbing. And this may be influenced by my own background as a chess player. When i was quite young, i knew a lot of super talented young chess players, just brilliant people, young kids full of energy to play chess. But they always were just stuck on the notion that winning at chess was the game they should be playing. And from agnus carlson, that's true. That's the game he should have been playing, and he is still. But for most of those people, if they stayed in the chess game, their lives are miserable. You know, they're now old, they don't have health insurance, they're not top players any more. Their lives are wrecked. So you can have durability and energy at the wrong thing. And the people who can understand this is the right to get to some higher point, where that higher point actually makes sense. I like to see if a person has that. And i think also getting them talking about drama, you get a sense of how they organize hierarchies, you know, of status or achievement in their minds. So those would be my top things, along with smarts, energy, durability.
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  Do they understand the hierarchies they should be climbing, say, looking at a young chess player, and we're trying to figure out, you know, do you and that like theiisen everything in life, there are other hierarchies toclimb. How much of that do you think is formed based on the environment that they're in verses, kind of being innate? ([Time 0:21:36](https://share.snipd.com/snip/450c4289-0154-43b5-8832-bf0af453624f))
	- Why isn't Gemal More Fun?
	  
	  Summary:
	  i told you in abstract of this alien technology, and it makes, like, no drugs are required. And how would you use that same type of thing in order to make yourself more productive? In order to make productivity soft or more fun? It's a thought everyone might have, but no one really acts on. At the end of the day, you might think it comes down well, this, that profit incentive. A lot of it comes down to talent. i think game designers are very underrated people in that sense.
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 1
	  If i told you in abstract of this alien technology, and it makes, like, no drugs are required, but it's just like a thing on your computer, and people really want to use it. And when they're not using it, they're just thinking about using it, it say, wel tha's impossible. You made like a drug for that. I say, no, tit's called games ten, you know. And how would you use that same type of thing in order to make yourself more productive? In order to make productivity soft or more fun? It's a thought everyone might have, but no one really acts on. And it all comes back to talent at the end of the day. F you ask like, why isn't gemal more fun? Why doesn't gemal help you accomplish your goals? Not the simple, stupid goals you have for the afternoon have just clear out the end box, but your actual goals in life, ike the things actually want to do, you know, write a book with tyler youn, try to have a little bit more fun in every day. Why isn't gemal helping you do that? And think a lot of it. At the end of the day, you might think it comes down well, this, that profit incentive. A lot of it comes down to talent. And i think game designers are very underrated people in that sense. And by the way, a small side bar here, software engineers from the gaming industry are extremely underrated. And there's a nice thread on the internet the other day about how he effect of the entire star team whose building space axes internet ino network, are gaming engineers. So i think that whole corner of the world is really overlooked by, you know, adults who view gaming as somewhat of the majoritive. But it's a very powerful sphere of human creativity, and i think more of it needs to be brought into dayto day life. ([Time 0:24:46](https://share.snipd.com/snip/19bd992c-691d-4d4c-b5bd-a84a51f97224))
	- How to Be More Carismatic?
	  
	  Summary:
	  Carismatic people have their own weird set up which defies description, and indeed is weird. And the weirdness makes them carismatic. I think in asking someone cares mad, i how to be carismatic, some one truly cares mad,. Like, as you ask, bill clinton, who, regardless of what you think about politics, does have natural carisma. It would be kind of like asking von noman, so how do you multiply five digent numbers in your head? And it avsy comes easily to them. What do you think?  I very much think you're right. You wouldn't actually really be drawn to them if you had pretty
	  
	  Transcript:
	  Speaker 2
	  So first let me say, i understand to be your theory is you need to take raw models of other people and kind of run them through your mind on a very regular basis, and not copy them. That makes you too mechanistic. But have those be live, vivid examples for your emotional imaginings of the entire world. And they don't have to be people in your field, but just live in their worlds. It could be winston churchill. It could be george orwell, it could be paul mcart magnus carlson. And that, over time, will make you more carismatic. The approaches i think you don't like, and i agree with you on this, is when you read a book and it says, like, to be carismatic, smile, make eye contact. The actual carismatic people i know often don't do those things. They have their own weird set up, which defies description, and indeed is weird. And the weirdness makes them carismatic. And someone who tried to follow all those, i suspect, would only clock in it like six point five on carisma, like they'd be fine, but you wouldn't actually really be drawn to them if you had, like, pretty fussy standards for carisma. What do you think?
	  
	  Speaker 1
	  I very much think you're right. I think in asking someone cares mad, i how to be carismatic, some one truly cares mad, like, as you ask, bill clinton, who, regardless of what you think about politics, does have natural carisma. I think it would be kind of like asking von noman, you know, so how do you multiply five digent numbers in your head? And it avsy comes easily to them. ([Time 0:39:08](https://share.snipd.com/snip/59613ca0-c675-4a44-8a6a-cfa24a0e1d88))